The following message by Alistair Begg is made available by Truth for Life.
For more information, visit us online at truthforlife.org.
Can I encourage you just to open your Bibles with me this evening, first again,
to First Thessalonians 4, and then if you are able to turn to Colossians 1,
that will be a help as well.
At the beginning of the 17th century, there was a bishop in Banger of North Wales.
His name was Lewis Bailey, and he wrote a book entitled The Practice of Piety.
The subtitle for which was directing a Christian how to walk
that he may please God. I have determined that I'm going to
track down a copy of this book, addressing as it does a subject of vital
importance. It went through 72 editions before a final edition was published
in 1842. The book was in circulation for well over 100 years,
and with the express purpose of tackling this question,
what does it mean in the most practical of terms for a Christian to please God?
In my experience in the last little while, most of the time that I've heard the word
piety used, it has been used within the context of disdain.
It has been used in a way that suggests piety is a form of quietism,
that it is a form of withdrawal from society and usefulness,
and indeed it has become almost a figure of fun
amongst people that we might expect would hold it differently.
And it is therefore of some import that when we turn to the opening verses of
1 Thessalonians 4, we discover that in actual fight what Paul is addressing
is this whole question of piety, or he would have been well pleased, I think,
with Bishop Bailey's description of directing our Christian how to walk in order
that he might please God. Paul would have said, now that is exactly what we're going to do.
We've written to you in the opening three chapters about how what you need to know,
and now in these concluding chapters we want to write to you about how you are to live.
The whole emphasis in Paul's final two chapters here of 1 Thessalonians
is on the matter of ethics, on the extreme practicality of what it means to live
as a practical, biblical, vibrant, and attractive Christian.
Sadly, one of the features of contemporary Christianity is that, and this is factually true,
Jewish families have a better standard of living when it comes to fulfilling marriage vows,
effective child rearing, and the abiding by principles of the law.
That I say not by conjecture, but that is actually the findings as a result of research
in relationship to religious heritage. I think there is an obvious reason for that,
and it is this, that Jewish people have no problem, at least in orthodoxy, recognizing that God
has standards. They have been trained from their earliest days to know that God has given a law,
and that God has given the law not to be toyed with, but to be adhered to.
And consequently, if they are going to live in obedience to that law,
then it is going to make an impact on their lives. Christians, in the last 50 years,
have been so concerned to make it clear to everyone that we are not under the law,
that they have virtually vetoed the idea of the law of God altogether.
And this amounts for the confusion that is represented in so many lives and in so many families,
and indeed in so many churches. While we understand that the believer no longer keeps the law,
as a means of acceptance with God, the fact of the matter is that we are still under obligation
to keep God's moral laws and His commandments. And that, frankly, is a sentence that will do well
to be pondered by many of us. When I have addressed this in the past in this congregation,
I have had people come and challenge the various assertion itself, that we are under obligation
to keep God's moral law. Interestingly, as we have had the privilege of aiding the 10 commandments
in some 15 cities around the country in these last two weeks, there has been a quite overwhelming
response to it. And hundreds of albums of these 10 commandments have been sold to people,
and the response which is coming back is simply this, we never realized that we were supposed to do
this stuff. We never realized that this was actually applicable to us. We never realized that God
had given us these commands in order that we might know how to please Him. And so what we have
throughout all of Scripture is a call then to this biblical standard. And as we're going to
discover, not this evening, but on subsequent evenings, Paul is intensely practical concerning
this matter of pleasing God. He says, I want to explain to you what pleasing God means when you
think about the whole question of sex, and that is not for this evening. I want to tell you what
pleasing God means when you think about the whole question of work. And I want to tell you what
pleasing God means when you deal with the matter of bereavement. There's not a man or a woman living
who does not have an interest in a concern about a perspective on the issues of sex work
and the death of oneself or a loved one. If we are going to declare that we have been brought to
a new life in the Lord Jesus Christ, then the world has every right to look and see a new lifestyle,
that there would be that dimension to us, which is holy, which is bent on pleasing God.
And despite the fact that the Bible has a tremendous amount to say about pleasing God,
it struck me forcibly this week that apart from this book by Louis Bailey at the beginning of
the 17th century, I haven't actually read a great deal or seen a great deal written or addressed
on the subject of what it means to please God. I know that we've heard about knowing God and loving
God and obeying God and seeking God and many other things, but I haven't seen much on pleasing God.
And yet Paul is suggesting here, indeed, declaring here that pleasing God is the guiding principle
of balanced Christian behavior. It was indeed the very example of the Lord Jesus himself who in John
8 declared, I always do what pleases my Father. Why are you going here, Jesus? Why are you doing this?
Why are you not doing that? His answer in one phrase was, I am seeking to do what pleases my Father.
Now this guiding principle of pleasing God is, says John, start very helpfully. Three things,
it is a radical principle, a radical principle, because it forces me to recognize that I cannot
say that I love him and that I know him if I do not seek to please him. The child who declares
their love and their knowledge of their parent's wishes and concerns, it lives only with a superficial
grasp of that if they do not make it their express purpose to please their parents. And therefore
it is radical in that it hits at the very heart of Christian discipleship. It forces me to ask the
question, who am I trying to please? When I walk into the study or the office tomorrow morning,
who am I trying to please? Well the answers were probably trying to please a number of people.
We go into the school room, who am I trying to please? But says the Bible at the very foundation
of it all and indeed the capstone of it all should be for the believer and overarching commitment
to please God. It is a radical principle. It is also a flexible principle. Insofar as it saves us
from Phariseism and from legalism. It saves us from a big long list of do's and don'ts because
the emphasis is not on keeping the law but on pleasing the law-giver. And it is very possible
for us to create a long list of things that we either do or we don't do in which there is no
pleasure, there is just carping subservience, but when we abide by the principle of saying,
well I want to please the one who gave the law, then it follows that we'll do what his law says.
But our emphasis is I want to do what pleases him. I want to discover it and then I want to do it.
It is also as a guiding principle something that is progressive. Insofar as we can spend all of our
lives with this as our overarching emphasis and never reach the fulfillment of it. If tonight we
affirm again our desire to please God and to do it more and more, we'll be back next Sunday still
with the same overarching desire, perhaps a little closer but definitely not there. And indeed we
may live all of our lives with this as the guiding principle of our behavior. I do love the story
of the boy who was being cajoled into some wrong behavior by his friends. I think they wanted him
to throw some stones and smash some windows, something like that and he determined that he wasn't
going to throw the stones and the boys began to cajol him and to say that he was chicken and he said,
no I'm not afraid and they said, well it is just that you are afraid of your father and what he will
do to you. Oh no, sir the boy I am not afraid of my father or what he will do to me but I am afraid
of what this action might do to him. That is the perspective of the child who wants to please his
father. It is not some groveling, fearful activity. It rather is a delight and it is a revolutionary delight.
Now before we break this bread together I want to turn with you to Colossians chapter 1 and I want
to answer the question what does it mean to please God from Paul's prayer for the Colossians.
Interestingly in Ephesians 5 and in verse 10 Paul says to the Ephesians, I want you to find out
what pleases the Lord, find out what pleases the Lord and that in fact is a great quest for our lives
and there are a number of places to which we might go to answer that question. Indeed the whole
of the New Testament helps us to answer the question and the subsequent verses here in 1 Thessalonians
will do the same but in order to give us a start on it I want to just draw your attention to these
four things which Paul prays for the Colossian Christians and which help us to answer the question
what then does it mean to please God? What pleases God? First of all fruitful living pleases God.
Verse 10 of Colossians 1 and we pray this says Paul in order that you may live a life worthy of the
Lord and may please him in every way bearing fruit in every good work, bearing fruit in every good work.
We sometimes hear people refer to as being good for nothing. We may even be tempted every so
often to review our lives and to regard ourselves in that way but the fact of the matter is that having
been placed in Christ what the New Testament says to us is this that all of our days and all of our
deeds are to be good for something and they are to be good for someone and when a man or a woman
sets themselves to the quest of finding out what pleases God seeking to live in a way which brings
pleasure to him one of the things that becomes immediately apparent is that fruitful living which
produces good works is one of the ways in which God is pleased with us. Now there is a dependence
which is necessary for fruitfulness to be affected. You may remember Jesus in one of his
pictures as he gives it to his followers concerning the story of the vine and the branches
he says to them in John 15 I am the true vine and my father is the gardener he cuts off every
branch in me that bears no fruit while every branch that does bear fruit he prunes so that it will
be even more fruitful even more fruitful. No branch can bear fruit by itself it must remain in the vine
neither can you bear fruit unless you remain in me and so the simple truth is this for us to face
this evening there is a dependence which fruitfulness displays. The individual who has set
themselves to the task of pleasing God will be surprised by fruitfulness in our lives.
Indeed God willing others will notice the fruitfulness it will not be something that we have to
parade around the hallways or out in the streets. It will not be that we are seeking to do good
works in order to gain acceptance with God but it will be that as a result of being accepted by God
having been grafted into Christ who is the vine we will as we mentioned this morning
discover these springs and shoots and flowers emerging from our lives declaring the fact of our
dependence upon He who is the vine and can I ask you tonight as I'm faced with a question myself
how fruitful is your life are you bearing fruit to good works with people at your school or in your
home or in your office in your laboratory and not necessarily be able to articulate your theology
but they would say you know there is somebody whose life just has a dimension to it it is attractive
it's almost like a ball of beautiful ripe fruit on a table it makes you want to reach out and have
some of it Paul says we're praying for you that you might bear fruit in every good work
because fruitful living please is God what also pleases God he says is knowledgeable living and we
pray this in order that you may live a life worthy of the Lord and may please him in every way
bearing fruit in every good work growing in the knowledge of God growing in the knowledge of God
it pleases God as we get to know Him better all in Philippians 3 says that I might know Him and the
power of His resurrection that I may know His passion that I may be conformed somehow to His life
and He's writing in the context of the Colossian Church within the framework of a kind of mysterious
knowledge which was known as Nosticism which was a peculiar experience into which certain initiates
were gathered and these were the people who were saying you know if you want to really know God
this is what's involved and so says Paul if you want to talk in terms of knowledge make sure
that you understand that when we speak about knowing God we're not talking about the superficial
theory of the unbeliever nor are we talking about the secretive heresy of the Nostec but we're
talking about that which is a birthright of those who are in Christ the knowledge of God to which
he refers as Hendrickson is heart transforming and life renewing it transforms my heart and it
renews my life more about Jesus says the hymn writer would I know more of his grace to other show
more of his saving fullness see more of his love who died for me the knowledge
in our living which pleases God is not a knowledge that produces Christian tadpoles with huge big heads
and tiny little bodies and arms and limbs but it is a personal knowledge
in the 60s when fan clubs for pop groups began I recall that they used to produce these
little magazines they were about five by eight in Scotland and England and I remember there was
one which was done for the fab four and if you got those little magazines in there you could learn
all sorts of things about your heroes for example I remember that they would have these profiles
which said Paul McCartney's eyes are blue his height is five foot eleven his weight is eleven
stone his ages 24 he drives a Ford he lives in a cottage his favorite food is spaghetti he has two
dogs in a cat he likes soccer and he dislikes elevators I could learn that off by heart tell
everybody about it and they'd say also you know him do you and I say no I just know a lot about him
I read it in a book the knowledgeable living which pleases God is not knowledge about
it is personal knowledge off do you have such a personal knowledge of the Lord Jesus tonight
able to say with Paul to me to live as Christ and to die is game it is not only personal but it is
progressive it's a wonderful thing is it not in marriage to realize that with every day and week
and month and year that passes the knowledge of one spouses far richer and far more meaningful
than ever we might have intended it could ever be in those early weeks of courtship and those
early days of marriage we used to sing a chorus in Scotland it went I love him better every day
I love him better every day nearby his side I will abide because I love him better every day
what pleases the Lord fruitful living knowledgeable living thirdly powerful living being strengthened
with all power according to his glorious might you know it's a plea it's a tall order to please
God in every way we look at this and we say goodness me I don't think that I will ever be able to
please God in this way I'm not sure that I'm going to manage to accomplish many of these things
and then we come to this wonderful truth that the powerful living which pleases God is not a
power which we muster up in our own strength but in point of fact it is a power which is infused
to us as the Holy Spirit is living within our lives we are strengthened with all power so neither
our aspiration nor our determination nor our perspiration can take the place of the inspiration
which is part of our Christian living this is actually a present continuous tense which is used
here the word is duna mumenai duna mumenai and it speaks of a constant infusing of power
so often our Christian lives are a bit like the human cannonball that we've seen at the circus
where we put on the helmet and we slither down the tube only to be propelled once in a great dramatic
burst of smoke and come hurling out to land in the safety net and then it's all over
and then we go around looking for another way to slide down the cannon another tape or another
sermon or another something that can get us one of these powerful experiences again so that we
might have this powerful living and someone says you should go here or you should go there or you
should try this or you should try that Paul says don't you worry about any of that you are growing
in a knowledge of God you are strengthened with all power it's not the power of the human cannonball
one great burst and then you're on your own it is the power of those Boeing engines in in
transatlantic flight where you look out of the window and you marvel at the thought first of all
that there could be enough thrust to bring this thing off the ground and then that for all those
hours across the Atlantic or across the Pacific you would be sustained in flight as a result of this
great energy and that is it tonight and many of us would be able to testify to the fact that God
has continued to endure us with power because we're so aware of our own weakness the power then
is discovered in this way and it is displayed you will notice in a quite dramatic way that you
would be strengthened with all power how will this powerful living reveal itself we live in a
contemporary culture that is consumed with power they love powerful people they like powerful
this and powerful that and there's a great quest to be a powerful person well how will this
be revealed in our lives well he says this strengthening with all power according to his glorious
might is so that you may have great endurance and patience interesting isn't it and so that you
would be dramatic not so that you would be necessarily well known but so that your life would
be marked by steady persistence and by a quiet confidence you think about the people who have
made the most dramatic impact on your life many of whom have faced circumstances that have not
been the best I think of people that I visited in the first two years when I was assistant
in the church in Edinburgh spent a tremendous amount of my time in nursing homes with elderly people
in actually in many cases folks whose lives had been radically impaired by illness and there are
still ladies names it happens just to be ladies in this case who stand out to me in my recollection
the lady who used to be the chief nurse in the royal infirmary I may have mentioned her to you
before by the time I was visiting her in the hospital the muscular disease to which he was subjected
was such that it was impossible for her even to keep her eyelids open for more than a split second
everything was closing down and she used to lie in the bed and I used to hold her hand
and she used to say read to me and I would read to her and she would comment and interrupt as I
read and as I read of God's faithfulness she would say that's right and as I read of God's goodness
she would have something to say concerning that and as I read of God's power to keep
she would lie there as a living testimony to it no longer able to impact people around the
wards no longer able to stand no longer able to feed herself no longer able even to sustain a gaze
into your eyes but somehow in the most awful of circumstances manifesting to me powerful living
steady persistence quiet confidence what pleases the Lord fruitful living knowledgeable living
powerful living and finally thankful living verse 12 giving thanks to the Father
who has qualified you to share in the inheritance of the saints in the kingdom of light
giving thanks for what giving thanks for the redemption that we experience verse 13
for he has rescued us from the dominion of darkness and as brought us into the kingdom of the
son he loves in whom we have redemption even the forgiveness of our sins notice God's initiative
in the wonder of his grace look at the verbs in verse 12 he has qualified us he has granted us to
share in this inheritance he has rescued us he has brought us in
on Friday as we have the opportunity to do this call in program that went first of all to New
York City and then went to Los Angeles the best call that we had was the last caller at the end
of the first half hour and a fellow was on his phone in the car from the Bronx a guy by the name of
Joe and his he came on the phone he I can't I didn't try his accent but it was a good one and he
said hey this is Joe I said hi Joe how are you doing he said I'm doing great I said why is that he
said I've just been a Christian for eight weeks and I'm so excited he said the Lord is doing
so many things given me so many provisions he's so good to me he's so dear to me I'm just he
with this guy was fit to be tied this amazing we didn't hear there's a major crash and explosion
as he drove his car off the road I was concerned he would hang up soon so that he could drive in
safety but there was no question anybody listening said either the guys are fruitcake or else
something really happened to it all he phoned up to say was I want everyone to know I'm thankful
indeed he concluded his call but he says I just want to say this and then he told everybody how
thankfully he was to the Lord Jesus for redeeming him thankful living for the redemption we experience
and for the relationship we enjoy he has brought us into a kingdom and he has made his members
of the family and we're sharing in an inheritance with the saints in the kingdom of light in other
words thankful for the privileges of family membership what pleases the Lord fruitful living
knowledgeable living powerful living thankful living this little reminder
makes us aware of a pitfall to avoid the pitfall of seeking to please men rather than God
and seeking to please myself rather than God it provides for as a perspective to adopt namely to
seek that all of my decisions my desires and my choices would be governed by a prior determination
to please God I can guarantee you teenager that if you make a covenant to please God and that is
your number one commitment you just decide that say I'm going to determine having been redeemed by
God's goodness having been given a relationship in God's family this is going to be it for me
I'm not going to make my first endeavor in life to get straight A's I'm not going to make my first
endeavor in life to be well thought of I'm not going to make it anything other than to find out
what pleases God that's going to be the overarching commitment of my life I'm going to find out what
pleases God if that is your first question every time you date someone every time you go for a job
interview every time you seek to determine where you're going to go to college or university
every time you have the opportunity for a dirty deal or a devious plan
you'll be on the right track you'll be on a straight and narrow
I'm not going to give you any more rules than the Bible gives you it's the 10 commandments
here's the principle to please God a pitfall to avoid a perspective to adopt and a place to
apply it where should we apply the principle everywhere with whom everyone to what to whatever
you do there's not a thing you can think about to which this principle doesn't apply
and as we're going to discover in subsequent weeks it certainly addresses the issue of sex
it definitely addresses the issue of work it speaks powerfully to the issue of loss of loved ones
hey let's determine as a church family to make a concerted effort to find out what pleases God
you've been listening to a message by allister beg from truth for life and you're welcome to pass
this sermon along to others but please don't charge for it or alter it without written permission from
truth for life this content has been provided to you free of charge by the generous supporters of truth
for life for additional information about how you can support truth for life please visit us online
at truthforlife.org there you'll find free message downloads from allister beg as well as links
to our podcast mobile apps and other resources to help you grow in your Christian faith again the
website is truthforlife.org you can also follow us on Facebook and Twitter to stay in touch with truth
for life and allister beg truth for life where the learning is for living
