The following message by Alistair Begg
is made available by Truth for Life.
For more information, visit us online at truthforlife.org.
We want to proceed with our studies in First Thessalonians
and come once again to these opening verses
of the fourth chapter, which are introduced by Paul's words,
finally, brothers.
We instructed you how to live in order to please God.
Jesus declared, it's recorded in John chapter 8,
in regard to his father, he said,
I always do what pleases him.
Paul announces of himself and his colleagues
in 2 Corinthians 5 that whether they're away
or whether they're at home, he says,
we always make it our aim to please him.
When he exhorts the Ephesian believers in chapter 5
and verse 10, he says to them,
I want you to find out what pleases the Lord.
And this whole issue of pleasing God
is not some matter of personal preference,
it is a divine imperative, it is a necessity.
As we discover this morning, God does not exist for us,
but we exist for him.
He does not exist in order that he might fulfill
our aspirations, but we exist in order that we might live
to the praise of his glory.
And therefore, we're always going to have to pay
particular attention to this whole issue of pleasing God.
It's important to realize also that
Paul is not penning some of his own peculiar prescriptions
when he speaks about the gospel that he has proclaimed
back in verse 13 of chapter 2.
He says, we thank God continually
because when you receive the word of God,
which you heard from us, you accepted it,
not as the word of man, but as it actually is the word of God.
So they were in no doubt as to what was going on.
When Paul spoke and when Paul wrote,
he was giving to them the very word of God.
And in the same way you will note,
as he speaks about these instructions or commands,
they are provided by Jesus himself.
Finally, brothers, we instructed you how to live
in order to please God and as he goes on into verse two,
he says, for you know what instructions we gave you
by the authority of the Lord Jesus.
So when people are tempted to say,
well, I don't really know that we have any right
to be as bold and as forceful as perhaps we are,
then our answer is this is not the preoccupations
of the Apostle Paul.
This is the word of God himself,
both in the gospel he proclaimed
and in the practical instructions he in turn provided.
How then should we live?
Well, we should live with our eye and focus
with a determined approach to pleasing God,
for pleasing God is the foundation
of all our ethical Christian behavior.
It's a radical principle and it is a wonderful principle,
namely that our whole motivation for living
within parameters is not as a result of seeking
to commit ourselves to some farceical list
of do's and don'ts.
But all of our Christian behavior is as a result
of seeking to please God.
And in seeking to please the Lord,
however, we then determine that we shall keep the law
which he has given.
Now that could all seem somewhat abstract,
but not for the fact that in this section,
Paul makes clear what it really means
to work out this principle in the routine of our lives.
And he addresses it in relationship
to three particular areas in this opening half of chapter four.
The matter of sex, the matter of work,
and the matter of death.
If you think about it, there are no more prominent notions
in many of our minds than these three whole areas of life,
whether we live singly or within the framework of marriage.
Now to this first issue, we come this evening
and to the first approach to this first issue,
I should say, for we will not be able to get
all the way through these verses
in the time that is available to us.
But we are addressing this issue of sexual purity.
Does the Bible have a perspective on this matter?
Yes, it does.
Is it clear? Yes, it is.
Is it not true that the conditions in which Paul was living
are very different from our own?
No, it is not.
Paul was writing from Corinth to Thessalonica.
The context from which he was writing
was dominated by sexual vice and immorality.
The temple of Aphrodite was predominant
on the skyline of that time in Corinth.
And this temple was a standing testimony
to all kinds of immoral excess.
And those who had become the temple priestesses
as they were known, would apply their trade
as so-called sacred courtesans
under the darkness of the Corinthian evening.
And so Paul was aware of the fact
that people were continually bombarded
by this kind of sexual emphasis.
Aphrodite, of course, was in Roman terminology Venus
and with the same preoccupation.
So that's where he's writing from.
He can't lift up his eyes and look,
but he is confronted by this matter of sexual immorality.
And the context into which he is writing Thessalonica
was actually no better at all.
Thessalonica had the worship of a number of deities
who were called the cabiri.
And in the worship of these deities,
their worship included rights of gross immorality.
It was not simply that they propounded freedom
in terms of sexual license,
but it was that they included within the very framework
of their worship those excesses.
And so Paul writes to this confused,
mortally confused day in a way that is very helpful
for we live in an equally immoral culture.
The man of Paul's day, where it was assumed
in such a position that the eye that could not
or would not limit themselves to their wives
as their only sexual partner.
And this, of course, is what we find in many cultures
as the missionaries go out,
they find that written into the very fabric
of the culture is the idea of fornication and infidelity
as something which is just regarded
as being particularly normal and okay.
We have not quite stooped to that level here,
but one might be tempted to say,
of course, we're very close.
So Paul responds to this,
without any waffling at all, he provides these instructions,
which as you will see are plain,
they're honest, practical, authoritative and uninhibited.
When it comes to this kind of issue,
especially if you're dealing with teenagers,
they don't want a bunch of waffle.
They don't want a little bit of this and a little bit of that.
They want a clear, straight answer.
They may not like it, but they want it.
And the Bible gives it.
Any waffling on the matter of sexual purity
is as a result of our fear or our compromise with our culture,
but it is never and can never be as a result
of the clarity with which the Bible speaks
to these sexual matters.
Paul is unashamed, he's unahhibited,
and it is exactly what the believer needs,
especially the young believer
who is exposed to pagan standards and pagan pressures.
Now, in studying these verses, I have been helped,
and I wonder if this will help you.
I'm going to suggest that it might,
and I'll lead you through it.
I've been helped by viewing this paragraph here
as one half of a conversation.
Now, let me explain to you what I mean.
What we have here are Paul's answers
to a dialogue that is taking place between them,
at least potentially so.
For example, Paul says, and here we are in verse three,
it is God's will that you should be sanctified
to which the individual replies,
like, what do you mean?
To which you replies, avoid sexual immorality.
To which the reply is, how am I supposed to do that?
To which the reply comes learned to control your own body,
live within the God ordained limits.
To which the individual responds,
so it's just a kind of personal private matter, is it?
To which the apostle responds, no,
make sure that you don't wrong your brother
in relationship to these things.
To which the individual responds,
while I'm sure since the Lord is so loving,
he won't mind if I mess up.
To which the apostle responds, listen,
the Lord will punish this kind of sin.
To which the individual responds,
give it to me again, just in a sentence,
to which the apostle replies,
God did not call us to be impure,
but to live a holy life.
To which the individual responds,
I think you're a little excessive in relationship
to this, Paul, I think you're going to wee bit over the top.
To which the apostle responds,
he who rejects this instruction, does not reject man,
but God who gives you his holy spirit.
I don't know if it's helpful for you to think
in those terms, but it certainly was helpful to me,
that what Paul is doing here is actually
addressing specific questions that have come to him.
And if you imagine it in terms of a dialogue,
then I think we can see how logically
the progression of his thought follows.
Well, then it's then turned to it
and go through this process,
noticing his statement with which he begins in verse three,
it is God's will that you should be sanctified.
Christian faith does not derive its standards
from contemporary society,
but from the scriptures themselves.
And here we have it in a phrase,
it is God's will that you should be sanctified.
Now, Paul has already referred to this.
If you look at verse 13 of chapter three,
he says, may he strengthen your hearts
so that you will be blameless
and holy in the presence of our God and Father
when our Lord Jesus comes with all his holy ones.
Sanctification is the process
whereby the holiness to which he refers in verse 13
of chapter three is the end product.
God by his spirit is at work in the life of the believer
conforming us to the image of his son.
And so as he works within our lives
to conform us to Christ,
there will come a day when the process is complete
and when we are gathered up to be with him.
He's going to come back to it again
as we will discover in chapter five,
where in verse 23 he says, may God himself,
the God of peace sanctify you through and through,
may your whole spirit, soul and body
be kept blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ,
the one who calls you is faithful and he will do it.
It's a great word of encouragement there
because one of the tremendous challenges
in relationship to the matter of sexual purity
is this how in the world can I possibly live to this standard?
How am I ever going to be able to do this?
I'm supposed to live in purity, says the teenager,
from now until the day I get married,
I don't even have a girlfriend.
If I met one, I don't know if she'd like me,
I don't know whether I could ever marry her.
They're goodness gracious.
This may be for the next 11 years.
But I have to live in purity.
Yeah?
But Elizabeth Elliott is very, very helpful
in the subject when she reminds the teenager,
you only have to stay pure for 60 seconds a minute.
For the future comes in at the rate of 60 seconds a minute.
And the call to moral purity
is one which is enabled by the Spirit of God,
he is faithful and he will do it.
What then is this sanctification business?
It is God's will that you should be sanctified.
Yes, you say, and I'm very glad to hear it,
but what is it?
What's going to happen to me?
Well, sanctification, as I've said,
denotes this process of being set apart for God,
of having been taken from what we once were
and become something very different.
And we have told you before of a visiting speaker
that we had an Englishman who came and spoke for us
for a weekend in our church in Hamilton.
And on the Saturday morning when we had a breakfast
and the conference began,
I remember him addressing this issue
of what it meant to be part of the body of Christ
and how it changed everything.
And he described his own experience
of being called up for the Second World War
and appearing on the drill ground
and being introduced for the first time to his drill sergeant.
And the drill sergeant, he said, look them all over
and said, I know you've come from here and come from there.
I know your name is this and I know your family is that,
but he said, and this is how he put it, he said,
but I want you to know that as of today,
your mind, all mind,
the guy said, it is so terrible right up his spine.
As he realized that this was actually true
and he had now with this uniform enlisted
and was under the veritable control of this character.
Well, the fearfulness apart, the picture is helpful.
When we are brought into the body of Christ,
Jesus comes to us and he looks us in the eye
and he says irrespective of your background
or your preferences or your family name
or whatever you've been or whatever you've done
or whatever you hope to be,
I want you to know that your mind,
you're all mine as of now.
And as a result of that, there is set in gear a process
to conform us to the image of Jesus.
And that's what Paul says when he writes that Timothy
is a young man, to Timothy 1.9, I think it is,
that he says of the experience of Christian living,
he says of God, he has saved us and called us to a holy life,
to a holy life,
to a radically different kind of life,
to a kind of life that we've never known before,
to the kind of life that we may have abused before
and we may have scorned before
because we only ever used in our preconverted state,
the adjective holy in a pejorative way
and we refer to people as holy willy
or holy Jane or whoever it was
and we poured scorn on their lifestyle.
And then the Spirit of God came and opened our hearts
to receive the truth and we embraced Christ
and we discovered that he had saved us
and he had called us to a holy life.
It may be helpful for you to think of Christian living
in terms of a crisis, followed by a process,
followed by a crisis.
That really is the Christian life.
The crisis is described for us in Romans chapter 5 and verse 1
where being justified by faith,
we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ,
a description there of one of the aspects
of what it means to become a Christian
and as a result of this great crisis event,
our condition before God is radically and irrevocably altered.
We haired the word of the gospel,
we realized that we were sinners,
we realized that we could do nothing
to put ourselves in credit with God,
we heard the good news that Jesus had paid it all,
we trusted our lives unreservedly into the care of Jesus
and being justified by faith,
we were declared righteous in God's sight.
There then follows a process and the process is that
to which Paul is referring here.
It is that to which Paul refers in Romans chapter 6
if your Bible is open, where in verse 20 he says,
when you were slaves to sin,
you were free from the control of righteousness.
When you didn't care about cussing and living in an immoral way
in reading certain literature and paying attention
to certain things he says,
when you were slaves to sin,
righteousness had no control over you,
you had a disregard for it,
oh there may have been a twinge in your conscience
every so often, but it never bothered you.
People said you wanna do this and you said fine,
do you wanna see this and you said that'll be okay?
Verse 21, what benefit did you reap at that time
from the things you're now ashamed of?
What an amazing verse that is.
Ask yourself, those of you who have come to faith
later in life, what benefit did you reap at that time
from the things you're now ashamed of?
The answer is none.
It was all hell to you.
It was all emptiness to you.
It was all futility to you.
And that you see is one of the great
of my making, making a side here.
That is the one of the great reasons
we want to make such an investment in the lives of our children
that God and His mercy may redeem them in their infancy
and save them from that stuff.
Lest He has to save them out of this stuff.
Now God is suffering in all these things.
He says these things result in death.
Verse 22, but now a new process has begun.
But now that you have been set free from sin, crisis,
and have become slaves to God,
the benefit you reap leads to holiness
and the result is eternal life.
You understand this?
That this process is set in motion by the Holy Spirit
whereby old ways and old habits
are increasingly done away with
and new habits and new desires
which fit in with the will of God, take their place.
And from the process, we're going to go to another crisis.
Romans chapter 8, in verse 30.
Speaking of the great work of redemption,
the apostle says, and those he predestined, he also called.
And those he called, he also justified.
And those he justified, he also glorified.
He speaks about that which is still future in the past tense
because once God has begun the work of grace within our lives,
it's guaranteed that he will bring it to completion.
That's Philippians 1.6.
And so he says, the crisis of regeneration,
now being followed by the process of sanctification,
will eventually result in the crisis of glorification.
1 John chapter 3.
And when we see him, we will be like him
for we will see him as he is.
We're going, if we are still alive and remain
when the trumpet sounds as we saw last Sunday morning,
we will be changed in a moment in the twinkling of an eye.
It will not be a process.
It will be an instantaneous crisis.
And that's why I've tried to summarize it for you always,
that the three tenses of Christian living are as follows,
that in being redeemed by the grace of God,
we have been saved from sin's penalty.
We need no longer fear, the sting of death,
for Jesus has paid it all.
Saved from sin's penalty in the past.
One day, when I see him, I will be saved from sin's presence
and in the moment, I am being saved from sin's power.
Now, how does this process take place?
We can't unpack it all,
but listen to how Jesus prays for his followers
in John chapter 17, and it gives to us the key.
We won't turn it very far in the lock,
but I want you just to notice it.
John chapter 17,
and verse 13,
Jesus says to his father, I'm coming to you now,
but I see these things while I am still in the world
so that they may have the full measure of my joy within them.
I've given them your word and the world has hated them
for they are not of the world any more than I am of the world.
You see, this is how and why people will hate us.
When the second part of the verse is true,
the first part will be operative.
I gave them your word and the world hated them.
Why?
Because they're not like the world.
As much as we are compromised with the world
and like the world is the degree to which
we know nothing of the first part of the verse.
If we take the dirty jokes of a Monday coffee break
and just laugh with them,
the world has no reason to hate us.
But if we laugh not with them,
not in a sensorial way,
but we just say, you know what, that is crud.
I used to do that stuff.
It doesn't, it's not even funny anymore, that's disgusting.
You better be on your toes
because they'll be on you like a ton of leg.
Who do you think you are?
Where do you think you came from?
Who made you better than us?
Don't tell him, he's a jerk.
I hate him.
See, we'll never know that unless we live in the world.
You never know that if you're living in a wardrobe somewhere
and you don't know any non-Christians.
That's the other way not to get hated.
Just to live in a box.
You live in the box where the people you live in a box
where they'll eventually hate you.
But the fact is, if we're gonna live in the world,
then we're gonna experience this.
Verse 15, my prayer is not that you take them out of the world
but that you protect them from the evil one.
They are not of the world, even as I am not of it.
Here it comes, sanctify them by the truth.
Your word is truth.
How does the sanctifying process take place?
By the holy scriptures.
As the scriptures are open to us,
as we read them in our daily devotional life,
how can a young man keep his way purest as the Samist
by paying heed according to your word?
And as a result of the process being worked out,
we declare ourselves to be these different kind of people.
Now you see the saints in the New Testament
are not people who graduated at the top of their religious class
and were subsequently rewarded with a title
on account of their unparalleled goodness.
The saints in the New Testament
are just ordinary people like you and me,
ordinary people who have been separated from
all that marked our previous existence and separated too.
If you think about it in terms of marriage, you've got it.
Before you were married,
you had girlfriends, boyfriends, whatever it was.
People's names in your book, you could call them up,
you wanna go to the cinema, what would you like to do?
You might have three, you might have two,
you might have one, you might have ten, I don't know.
But on the day that you got married,
the list was history.
You were separated from and you were separated too.
And every day you live your married life,
we have the opportunity to ratify the crisis moment
when that ring went on our finger
and the indesolable union before God and man was established.
That's what it means to become a Christian.
That's what it means to discover a sanctified life.
Well, okay, so I am supposed to be sanctified.
What exactly do you mean by that?
Could you give me a concrete example?
Yes, Paul, I'll give you a concrete example.
Here it is, avoid sexual immorality.
Philips paraphrases it, make a clean cut
with all sexual immorality.
The word avoid is really not strong enough.
You can avoid certain things like you're driving on the road
and there's some poor creature that got mangled
and you avoid it.
But you get the chance to see it,
you get the chance to kind of look at it,
it's sort of around, you avoid it, you'd increase it,
but you saw it, you were a little too close to it probably.
And that you see in this word avoid
gives some of us a great measure of leeway.
Well, you know, I'm not really doing it, I'm avoiding it.
I'm not really, you know, if you knew what I was,
you know, and stuff said, no, no, clean cut, clean cut
in the way you have your tonsils taken out, clean cut.
Once they were there, now they're not there.
No more gargling, they're gone.
That's the picture.
Marshall puts it in this way where things are evil,
the Christian attitude is necessarily one of abstention
and not of moderation.
Abstention, not moderation.
You see, you hear people doing things with the Bible,
that's really crazy stuff.
They take phrases like, well, all things in moderation
and they fasten onto that and they have a discussion like this
and then they say, oh yeah, well, the Bible says,
you know, all things in moderation.
All things that are lawful in moderation.
But where it comes to things that are evil,
the issue is not moderation, the issue is abstention.
Well, then how does that work out?
Well, that brings us to the beginning of verse four.
And it brings us to the most difficult phrase
in the whole of First Thessalonians.
Do you think right now it would be a good time
to start on that phrase?
That's right, I didn't think so either.
If you have a revised standard version
or a King James version, I haven't checked the NESB.
But you will notice there that unlike the NIV,
it says, so each of you should learn how to take a wife.
In the NIV, it says that each of you should learn
how to control his own body.
Why the discrepancy?
Does it matter?
What does it mean?
How do we resolve it?
We'll come to that next Sunday evening, God willing.
But in the meantime, let it be clear.
The people who are about to be baptized
have experienced a crisis.
They're going for another crisis when they're glorified.
At the moment, they're in process.
These are not perfect people.
These are not people who went through some deal
and finally graduated, got the SAT scores
on the religious level high enough,
and so we decided they would get baptized.
These are just ordinary people,
stumbling and bumbling their way through life.
God has not finished with them yet.
They're still under construction.
They're not what they're going to be,
but by God's goodness, they're not what they once were.
They're under new management.
Tonight, they're putting up the sign in a graphic way
and giving to all of us the right to expect
that since the shop of their life
is now under a new manager,
things will be different in the shop.
And if in the shop of your professed Christian life,
things are not different,
then you're either living in rebellion,
you have never become a Christian
for when you experience a new life.
There is an accompanying new lifestyle.
Let's pause in prayer.
Father, we ask that the words of our mouths
and the meditation of our hearts
may be acceptable in your sight.
O Lord, our strength and our redeemer,
for Jesus' sake, amen.
You've been listening to a message by Alistair Begg
from Truth for Life,
and you're welcome to pass this sermon long
to others, but please don't charge for it
or alter it without written permission from Truth for Life.
This content has been provided to you free of charge
by the generous supporters of Truth for Life.
For additional information about how you can support Truth for Life,
please visit us online at truthforlife.org.
There you'll find free message downloads from Alistair Begg
as well as links to our podcasts, mobile apps,
and other resources to help you grow in your Christian faith.
Again, the website is truthforlife.org.
You can also follow us on Facebook and Twitter
to stay in touch with Truth for Life and Alistair Begg.
Truth for Life, where the learning is for living.
