The following message by Alistair Begg is made available by Truth for Life.
For more information, visit us online at truthforlife.org.
Now, if your Bible is still open to 1 Thessalonians 5, you're at the right spot.
And we're going to pick things up where we left off last time.
The subject matter which is under consideration by Paul at this stage in his letter
is the issue of the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ.
He has been encouraging the believers in Thessalonica not simply to look back to what Christ has accomplished on the cross,
not simply to look around to the evidences of His grace within their lives,
but to be clearly looking forward to the fact that this same Jesus is coming again.
And in the opening verses of chapter 5, he sets aside their potential preoccupations with times and dates,
and encourages us not to get off on the wrong foot in relationship to the matter of curiosity.
And we spent some time on that last week, my secretary on earth for me during the week,
an illustration that I'd had in my files and overlooked concerning this whole periphery
that has continued to surround the issue of the clear instruction of the Word of God.
This was an advertisement that I had pulled from the Times in London.
It also appeared in the LA Times in the New York Times and various newspapers all around the world.
And those of you who are close enough will be able to see that it bears the banner heading,
the Christ is now here.
And it goes on to tell us how we'll be able to identify Him,
that He won't be a religious figure, that He will be a teacher, He will be an educator, and so on.
And then it comes finally to the question, and when will we see Him?
To which the answer is given, He has not, as yet, declared His true status,
and His location is known to only a very few disciples.
That's always a very helpful way to approach it.
One of these disciples has announced that soon the Christ will acknowledge His identity,
and within the next two months will speak to humanity through a worldwide television and radio broadcast.
His message will be heard inwardly, telepathetically, by all peoples in their own language.
And from that time with His help, we will build a new world.
And then it says, this statement is appearing simultaneously in major cities of the world.
And this is from the times of Saturday, April the 24th, 1982.
And the aging yellow on the page is a tribute to the ludicrous nature of what was declared at tremendous expense.
Now, I mentioned it last time, I want to reinforce it for you.
If you want to chase mice all under the chair in relationship to these things,
then go ahead and do it, but please don't encourage everybody else to come scurrying under the chairs with you.
Allow them simply to look forward to seeing the king.
The matter of curiosity was then considered in light of the fact of our identity.
We went to that in verses four and five, and we saw Paul's clear emphasis in relationship to the fact
that these people were no longer what they once were.
This is one of the things about becoming a Christian.
To become a Christian is not simply to decide to get religious.
It is not simply to reprogram the way we think about religious affairs.
To become a Christian is actually to be totally revolutionized as a result of the impact of the power of God
through the spirit of God by the Word of God.
And these people had been made radically new.
And he says to them, brothers, you are not in darkness
so that this day should surprise you like a thief.
Instead, you are all sons of the light and sons of the day.
One of the fascinating things to do is to take the New Testament and go through it, asking the question,
how many different ways is a Christian designated in the New Testament?
How many different ways are there of saying a person is a Christian?
And here we come to one of them.
Paul uses this picture in other places in Ephesians 5.8, for example.
He says to his readers, you were one's darkness.
But now you are light in the Lord, live as children of the light.
We do not belong to the darkness, verse 5.
We are not what we once were.
We belong, he says, in verse 8, to the day.
And the point is that our identity provides the basis for the activity in which we engage.
He says, if you belong to the day, then your behavior should be daytime behavior.
There are certain things he says that go on at night.
There are certain features of darkness.
That was your previous existence, he said.
But God in His grace is open chapter 2 to you.
And now he says, you are not to be those who are living half asleep.
You're not to spend your life yawning.
You shouldn't be living around in your slippers.
You should not be living in your pajamas.
Instead, you should be marked by being children of the day.
Now once he has laid this out, the progression of his argument is very clear, as you will
notice, by just a simple reading of the text.
He starts in verse 8 and he says, since this is true concerning who we are, then this
is what we are to do.
For he says, this is what God has done.
Therefore he says in verse 11, here are the practical implications.
And if you can see that simple progression in the text before you, then it will allow
you to trace a line through it, and I will try and follow along the same line to help
you as we go.
First of all, then he says in verse 8, since we belong to the day, a number of things
should be happening.
And there are three, he delineates.
The first of which is we should be staying awake, staying awake.
And of course, immediately bring some of you up short, who have already begun to nod off
by this point in the service as a result of misspent evenings last night.
But anyway, just so you know, we are to be staying awake.
Verse 6, he had said the same thing.
We are not like the others who are asleep, instead let us be alert and let us be self-controlled.
In other words, the Christian is the person who amongst other things has their wits about
them.
They are alert to the challenges, opportunities, struggles, and responsibilities of the day.
And the primary emphasis here in verse Thessalonians 5, and indeed throughout the whole of the
New Testament, is that the call to alertness, the call to self-control, the call to set
aside dreaminess and carelessness is primarily a moral and a theological call.
In other words, it is imperative that we are not falling foul of immoral pursuits as a result
of not staying awake and it is very, very important that we are not hoodwinked by all kinds
of crazy ideas because we are living half asleep.
When you are half asleep, a number of things are possible.
Danger lurks nearby for those who are half asleep.
Certainly, that is true when you are driving your car.
When you first go off to college or whatever it is, your parents will always tell you would
you please call every 20 minutes because we want to know that you are safe and we want
to know that you haven't fallen asleep at the wheel and imperiled yourself in the same way.
Those of you who have responsibilities for the care of others know how important it is
that you are awake and not asleep.
The nurse in the middle of the night who is caring for people in the intensive care unit
of a hospital needs to make sure that he or she is well awake so that they may read the
charts so that they may observe the signs and so that they may produce the medication
in the right doses at the right times.
We don't want the people there half asleep.
It is dangerous to have them half asleep.
Flying this week to San Antonio, the flight was late, out to Chicago, by an hour.
I asked the girl, one of the stewardesses, what is the problem with the weather last night?
No she said the pilots asleep.
All I said that is good.
She said, you are right, it is good.
We like them well rested and the fact of the matter was that they needed to meet the legal
requirements of rest before they took the throne once again and zoomed off into the great
blue yonder.
We understand that because to be half asleep represents danger.
Peter writing on the same thing for Peter 5, it says be self-controlled and alert because
your enemy the devil is going around like a roaring lion seeking those he may devour.
Peter had learned his lesson eventually but in the Garden of Gethsemane, along with
the other disciples, he failed to learn the lesson.
Jesus said, watch and pray that you do not enter into temptation.
They neither watched nor did they pray and they fell right into it.
First then it is imperative that we stay awake because when we are half asleep there is
potential for danger.
So when we are half asleep, we do not give attention to the things that deserve attention
and we do not give attention that is deserved.
The church in Ephesus was warned of this when Paul took his leave of them.
You can read it in Acts 20.
He says to the elders there, I want you to watch yourselves and watch the church.
I want you to make sure that you are really paying attention because if you do not, then
you will find that all kinds of things will creep up on you.
And it is when we are half asleep that we may be compromised.
You ever fall in the sleep on the couch and awaken to find that somebody has done something
to you, put something on your head or tied something to you or tied your shoelaces together
or whatever else it was.
How did they possibly manage to do so?
Because we were half asleep.
If we had been alert, they would not have managed to pull it off.
Now what Paul is saying is very clear.
Here you are believers.
You have been made children of the day.
It is right for me to anticipate that you will then be marked by daytime activities and
I want you to make sure that you stay awake.
Secondly, he says, it is imperative that you guard your heart.
Where does this come from?
Let us be self-control.
Next, putting on faith and love as a breastplate.
The picture here is of Christian armor.
You don't quite know how Paul makes it to this metaphor, except to say that the issue
of being alert probably triggered in his mind the question of a century.
Because the responsibility of a century on guard is to make sure that even if the whole
city falls asleep, he doesn't fall asleep.
He is the one to be alert.
And maybe that is the progression in Paul's mind.
As soon as he starts to think about being alert, he then moves immediately to the picture
of the soldier on guard.
And so he says, by the way, make sure you have your breastplate on.
Make sure that you are guarding your heart.
In Ephesians 6, he uses the picture of a breastplate in terms of righteousness.
Here he figures it in relationship to faith and love.
Reminding us that the metaphor may be used in a variety of different ways, and he felt
free to apply it in whichever way he determined.
But the issue is clear, how are we then going to guard our hearts?
While he says, you guard them in relationship to faith and in relationship to love.
What is this faith to which he refers?
Well, it is the faith that believes in the promises of God.
It is the faith which receives the forgiveness of God.
And it is the faith which lives life in relationship to those two truths.
How are we going to go out and face the issues of our day in a world that is increasingly
preoccupied with sync, artistic and pluralistic religious experience that is increasingly
disenchanted with science and with secular, humanistic thought?
Indeed, probably within a few years, the great issue will not be science against Christianity
or humanism against Christianity, but it will be spiritism against Christianity.
It will be two rival forms of spirituality probably by the end of the 20th century.
And how then is the Christian going to be able to articulate what they believe?
How then is the believer going to be able to say, well, you know, I believe in God in a
way that sets it apart from someone who says, so what else is new?
How are we going to be able to speak concern in the issues of the faith and of truth in
a way that delineates it and sets it apart as distinct?
The answer is we are not, unless we ensure that we are taking to ourselves this breastplate,
believing in God's promises, trusting in God's forgiveness and behaving life in relationship
to the two.
Also, the love of which he speaks, which is a constituent part of the breastplate, is
not some kind of vapid sentimentalism, but rather it is our response to the love which
God has shown us in the Lord Jesus Christ.
And that love will be displayed in relationship to one another.
Also, what is a Christian?
Well, a Christian is someone who is awake and a Christian is someone who is preoccupied
with faith and love.
He is seeking, she is seeking, to guard his or her heart.
And thirdly, you will notice that we are not only to stay awake and guard our heart,
but we are to keep our heads.
That's the whole point of the helmet, the hope of salvation as a helmet.
Doesn't it scare you to see people screeching down the freeway on motorbikes without helmets?
Doesn't it make the hairs stand up on the back of your neck?
As you just think for a moment of the implications of falling off that thing at 60 or 70 or 80 miles
an hour and landing on your head.
It's not a pretty thought and it's not a pretty sight if you've ever seen the end result
of it.
The helmet may not be particularly attractive, it may not allow you to look cool, it may
not make you feel the way you want to feel on your bike, but it's really, really important.
And there is a great temptation, it seems, on those who ride bikes to do it without their
helmet.
And there is a great temptation in Christian living to try and live our Christian lives
as it were without the helmet.
And Paul says, you shouldn't do it.
It's dangerous and it may prove fatal.
The helmet, he says, that we gather to our heads is the hope of salvation.
What is the salvation to which he refers?
How do we define it?
It's important that we can, indeed if we can, then we don't know what it is.
We tell somebody, you know, I really believe in salvation and they say, well, what's that?
And we say, well, it's salvation, you know.
He said, no, you haven't told me anything yet, you just told me a word, what does the word
mean?
Well, it means salvation, you know, saved, aha.
So we need to know what he means.
When you read the Bible, you discover that salvation is regarded both negatively and positively,
and in being saved, which is a word that the Bible uses continuously, we are saved from
and we are saved too.
So from what are we saved?
Well, we are saved, says the Bible, from the guilt and pollution and the punishment
of sin.
All the things that marked our lives before Jesus entered in, we have been saved from.
You can find this all over the place.
The positive side of it is that we have been saved too.
And God has not only taken us away from all this bad stuff, but he has promised to us all
this good stuff, if we might put it in that way.
And all the promises that are ours in the Lord Jesus Christ have been granted to us on
the basis of what Jesus has done.
But until a man or a woman understands this, and that's why the Bible is given to us,
so that we might understand it.
That's why it's written down in sentences with verbs and adjectives and nouns and pronouns
and conjunctions and everything.
That's why it's not there is a big, this sort of mishmash of nonsense, of blessed thoughts.
It is there in order that we might apply our minds to it.
And in applying our minds to truth, we may be able to stay awake, guard our hearts and
keep our heads.
I'll say, Paul, it's imperative that you do these three things.
Because you will notice what he says in verse 9, God has done certain things in your
lives as Christians to enable you to that kind of activity and to strengthen you as you seek
to live out the Christian life.
Now the progression is very, very clear.
How we should behave, he says, is based on who we are, right?
Since you are children of the day, this is who you are, this is how you ought to behave.
And who we are is based upon what God has done.
You ought to behave in this way because of who you are.
And the reason you are who you are, he says, is because of what God has done, what has
God done?
That's what he gives us in verses 9 and 10.
First of all, he says, he did not appoint us to suffer wrath but to receive salvation.
Let's just stop you for a moment on this issue of wrath.
What does he mean?
He doesn't appoint us to suffer wrath.
As soon as we think of the word wrath and relationship to God, we usually think of it
in negative terms.
We think of it in terms of man's anger, which is often just unoutburst, it is capricious,
it is volatile, it is not in any sense consistent.
And so when we look at the idea of wrath and relationship to God, we're tempted to press
onto who God is, the misconceptions that are based on who we are.
But in point of fact, this is what we discover.
Because God is absolutely without sin, because God is absolutely pure and undefiled, the
character of God must have a settled reaction to sin when it confronts it.
And the settled reaction of the character of God to sin is the response on the one hand
of his wrath, that it is not capricious in any way, but it is his divine nature.
That God must punish sin.
He cannot overlook sin.
He cannot wink his eye at sin.
He doesn't let us off with sin.
He must bring to bear his rightful response upon it.
And says the Bible, the rightful response of God is his wrath.
And that men and women, and you can turn to this in Ephesians 2 and see it there, men and
women, outside of the work of God in Jesus Christ, live their lives as objects of God's
wrath.
I hope you say, oh, I never heard this before in my life.
I thought the message of the Bible was God loves you.
Now you're saying here that unless I know God in Christ, that I am an object of his wrath.
Well, it's not so important what I'm saying, what is important is does the Bible say it?
Ephesians chapter 2, describing their pre-converted state, all of us also lived among them at
one time gratifying the cravings of our sinful nature and following its desires and thoughts.
Like the rest, we were by nature objects of wrath.
In other words, that's what we deserved.
We deserve punishment.
We deserved death, which was the punishment for sin, and we deserved hell, which is simply
eternal separation from God as a result of him meeting out his wrath.
So in other words, it was the wrath of God that made Calvary necessary for sin had to be
dealt with, and it was the love of God that made Calvary a reality.
Because they're in the death of Jesus, you have the necessary punishment for sin making
possible forgiveness for those who are united with Jesus, so that all of my sin was imputed
to Christ upon the cross, he bore my sin, and all of his righteousness was then credited
to my account.
Ansys Paul here is the wonderful thing.
We should rightly have been appointed to wrath, but God did not do that.
He appointed us instead to receive his salvation, and the Thessalonians understood this.
And the believer needs to understand it.
They were grateful for God's initiative in their lives because they understood their predicament.
And until a person understands their predicament, there is no reason for gratitude at someone
coming to save them.
You remember I told you years ago how in the middle of the night in our previous house,
all the fire brigade and ambulances and police cars from who know where came and came battering
on our door in the middle of the night?
And I ran down the stairs and answered the door, and was confronted by flashing lights
and sirens and policemen, and the policemen said, we've come to rescue you.
And I said, but I don't need rescue.
There's nothing wrong here.
He said, oh, we must be at the wrong house.
And then he went up the street to rescue somebody else.
But if it had been the other way around that I was sound asleep and the house was burning
around me, and I was in danger, and I was unaware of my predicament.
I made just the same of said, I don't need rescue.
And the man would have said, don't you smell that burning?
Don't you see those flames?
Don't you see your predicament?
I said, oh goodness gracious, yes I do.
Save me.
Now you see, this is what had happened to the Thessalonians.
First of all, someone had come, namely the Apostle Paul and said, you know what?
You have a predicament.
And there is no possible way of getting yourself out of it.
There is only one way to come out of it, and that is as a result of the intervening work
of God who, in his great mercy, has appointed you to salvation, which you will notice.
You received through our Lord Jesus Christ.
Why is it that men and women do not cry out to be saved because they don't know there
is anything from which they need to be saved?
And when we remove the wrath of God from our preaching, we denote it of its importance,
of its emphasis, and of its authority.
And all we're left able then to say is, you know what, I think it'd be a good idea for
you to believe in Jesus.
I think you'd really like it, you know.
I think you'd find it fun.
I think it would help you.
I mean, I think you're lonely and you could go somewhere.
I think you're upset and you could get calmed down.
I think there's peace in this and there's joy in this.
And a person says, yeah, I know, but there's peace in joy.
Other places, you know, I can get calmed down.
Other ways, I don't think I want to get into this.
So they pass it by.
But that's not a message, but the Bible brings.
The Bible doesn't suggest it.
The Bible says, listen, you're in deep trouble.
And I've got good news for you.
God, he says, didn't appoint us to suffer wrath,
but to receive salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ.
He came to his own, says John, in his opening prologue.
And his own received him not, but to as many as received him,
to them he gave power to become the sons of God,
even to them, the belief on his name.
So that's what it means to be an evangelical Christian in part.
It is to say to people, listen, because Jesus died on the cross,
it doesn't mean you're automatically forgiven.
You're not.
That's why you don't feel forgiven.
That's why you still feel guilty.
That's why you go and do religious things.
And it doesn't meet the longings of your heart.
Because Jesus died on the cross,
it doesn't mean you're automatically set free.
What do you need to do?
You need to come to him personally, acknowledge your predicament
and ask him by his mercy and his goodness
to remove you from your predicament.
He appoints we receive.
And there is no other way to go.
There is no other person to whom we made or there is no other philosophy
that can deal with a guilt and the stain of sin
that needs to be removed.
And all of this on the basis of his death, you will notice that.
How do we receive salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ?
And how does our Lord Jesus Christ grant salvation to us
on the basis of his death?
He died for us, he says.
Now Paul doesn't work out the whole doctrine of the atonement here.
He does it elsewhere.
But when we compare Scripture with Scripture,
we understand that Paul's clear emphasis is this,
that the death of Jesus was on our behalf
and it was for our benefit.
Romans 6, 23, the wages of sin is death,
but the gift of God is eternal life
through Jesus Christ our Lord.
So do you want to continue to live your life
drawing the wages of sin
or would you like to come to God
and find the benefit of the gift of his eternal life?
And the life that we now enter into
is on the basis of his death.
And the life into which we are brought
is a life lived together with him.
That's verse 10.
He died for us so that what?
Whether we are awake or asleep,
we may live together with him.
Love ones, this is a tremendously important truth in Scripture.
It's absolutely crucial for us
as we seek to live our Christian lives.
It was summarized and sung so helpfully for us
together in the words of the great him,
my hope is built and nothing less
than Jesus' blood and righteousness.
And yet many of us have lived another week
relying on the shifting, sinking sands
of our own performance or our own feelings.
So we determine how well we're doing
in relationship to God and the base of how we happen
to be feeling or how well we've been reading our Bible
or how many people we may have witnessed too.
As if somehow or another by our good deeds
albeit Christian, conservative, evangelical, religious deeds,
as if somehow or another by these things,
we make ourselves Christian and we ensure ourselves for heaven.
It is on the basis of the fact that God has intervened
in our life, shown as our predicament,
brought us to Himself through the power of His Son,
died for our sins, raised for our justification,
sent His Spirit to live within our lives
that we are able to say I understand it now.
My Christianity is based not upon who I am
or upon what I do, but it is based upon who Jesus is
and what He has done.
And there's all the difference in the world.
It is a dreadful tyranny to seek to live a Christian life
based on who I am and what I do,
because who I am is wretched and what I do is worse.
And if I take the performance of the last few days
and base my hope of heaven on my performance,
what solid ground is that to face eternity with?
Not a lot.
For we have erred and strayed from His ways
like lost sheep.
We have followed too much the devices
and desires of our own hearts
and there is no health within us.
So what are we going to do?
We're going to plead the only thing we can ever plead.
Bold eye shall stand in that great day
said count Zinsendorf,
for who ought to my charge will lay
while through His blood absolved I am
from sin and fear and guilt and shame.
And what do you do as a believer
when sin comes into your life?
What do you do as a believer
when you are confronted by your guilt
and by your proneness for rebellion
and the pressing urgency towards
disinterest in the things of God?
To where do we run?
There is only one place to which we might run.
Only one person to whom we might run
and this you see is the emphasis here.
He's encouraging these dear threatened Thessalonian believers
to understand, listen, again in Zinsendorf's words,
when from the dust of death I rise
to claim my mansion in the skies,
in then shall this be all my plea
Jesus has lived and died for me.
The ground of our salvation
is what Jesus has done upon the cross.
The evidence of it is the outworking of it in our lives.
I wonder, do you understand that?
I wonder, love ones, are you wearing your helmets
or are you flying down the freeway
of your Christian life with your hair blowing in the breeze
susceptible to every bump on the road
and tyrannized by the thought that you may fall off
because if you fall off, you know
if you hit your head, you're a goner.
And every magazine article that comes your way
and every new theory that blows across your brain box
and every idea that comes walloping out
of somebody's bookstore, you don't know where you are.
I'll tell you why because you're not wearing your helmet.
The devil comes to you so as I thought
in the back of your mind, it appears from nowhere.
You say to yourself, goodness, what a heinous thought.
While you're recognizing you have this horrible thought
in your mind, a murderous thought perhaps.
Even the thought of your own suicide perhaps.
Even the thought of spiteful hatred towards someone
that has come from nowhere to you.
And while it's in your head,
he comes to the front door of your head.
And he says, hey, excuse me.
I believe you call yourself a Christian.
How come you're having these dreadful heinous thoughts?
What do you say?
This is what you say.
I'm having dreadful heinous thoughts
because while sin no longer reigns in my life,
it remains.
And because you, stinko, devil-o,
are around with your hordes and your fiendish schemes
and your fiery darts and your devilish thoughts.
But here's my answer.
Yes, I had the thought.
But the ground of my salvation is in what Jesus has done
upon the cross.
He defeated you at the cross.
He died for my sins.
He deals with that thought.
And I look not to my own performance,
but I look away to Jesus Christ.
Rock of age is cleft for me.
Let me hide myself in thee.
Let the water and the blood from thy ribbons
guide which flowed, be of sin the double cure.
Save me from its guilt and his power.
All right, well, our time has gone.
Let's just go to verse 11 and wrap this up.
What's the progression of his thinking?
Verse 8, he says,
Since we belong to the day,
it is imperative that you stay awake,
guard your heart, and keep your head.
Why? Well, he says,
God did not appoint us to suffer wrath,
but to receive salvation.
And he died for us so that whether we lie in the grave
in our bodies or whether we are walking the streets
when we come, we may live together with him.
There is nothing that can thwart the purpose and plan
of God within our lives.
Sickness may come, premature death may take us
from a human perspective.
All kinds of things may cross our path.
But for the believer, we are safe.
Neither angels, nor principalities,
neither powers, neither sword,
nor persecution, says Paul and Romans 8,
can separate us from the love of God
that is in Christ Jesus, our Lord.
It is the only relationship in all of life
that is eternal in its dimensions.
Neither marriage, nor parenthood,
nor childhood, nor sibling relationships
will last in the way that our relationship
with the Lord Jesus will last.
So what then is the implication of this?
Well, he tells us in verse 11,
what are we supposed to do with all this information?
He says, this is what you're to do.
I want you to encourage one another
and I want you to build each other up.
Some of you may have a version
where the word edify is found.
Oye could do me as the Greek word.
It means to build up.
It's the same word that would be used
for putting a building in place,
constructing all those two by fours
and making sure that it stands fairly and safely
or from fishing, the mending of nets
to put them all back so that there will be no holes
when you go fishing the next time
or from orthopedics, the resetting
of broken and fractured bones
so that growth may proceed from there.
Now says Paul, I don't want the news
of the coming of Jesus to be a source of embitterment
or a source of confusion,
but I wanted to be a source of encouragement
and a source of edification.
Oh, you say, isn't that an amazing conclusion?
I mean, you would think after he'd gone all along
and these things, there would be some, you know,
big, dramatic punchline.
Jesus is coming back.
I want you to understand this and this and this
and this.
Now, therefore, encourage one another
and edify one another.
Is that it?
Yeah, that's it.
Do anything that's good?
Can you do it a little bit of encouragement?
When you like to be built up a little bit?
The worlds are tough spot to live, isn't it?
Which of us comes in here this morning
without some kind of battle scars
from the week that has gone?
Which of us emerges from the race of the Christian life
without a few spikes in the shins?
Without a few bruises when you take your shirt off
and see your ribcage as a result of elbows.
What do I need?
What do you need?
Encouragement.
Where are you going to get encouragement from?
From whom?
Notice.
From one another.
Who's one another?
The guy sitting next to you.
The lady sitting behind you.
The person sitting in front of you.
My task is to teach the scriptures
so that I might edify the saints
so that you might do the works of ministry.
When that starts to happen,
I start to get real obsolete
and so do my colleagues.
And we like that.
Not because we're lazy,
but because the penny is beginning to drop
and people are beginning to discover
what's supposed to be happening here.
But they don't have to go and see the man
or the man.
They just need to see one another.
If we're going to do what the Bible says,
encourage one another.
There's people around you this morning
who are frankly flat out discouraged.
They are discredited, they are misunderstood,
they are maligned,
they feel as though they were attached
and harvested with a long rope
and dragged through a hay field for about four and a half weeks.
They have emerged bloody and bruised
into the company of God's people.
And they're not probably going to go away
real strengthened as a result of
how are you fine, how are you fine,
fine, fine, good, fine, good, fine,
fine, fine, fine, good, fine,
fine, forget it.
Now I didn't mean we're all going to run out
and trip over one another and say,
excuse me, could you just stand still here?
I want to edify you for a moment.
Excuse me, here comes some encouragement
is about to come your way.
But what it does mean is this,
in simple ways,
and not as a result of an elite group
retaining the prerogative,
we can reciprocate the necessities of life
to one another.
Supporting, caring, encouraging,
comforting are ministries
which belong to all the members of Christ's body.
Don't tell me you don't know what to do
in this church.
Don't tell me you can't find a ministry in this church.
That is absolutely bogus.
I'll give you a ministry right here.
And when you finish this one,
you come back and I'll give you another one.
Okay, as of today,
commit yourself to being an encourager
in Parkside Church.
That will be my ministry.
Well, what do I do?
You figure it out.
Where will I go?
You figure it out.
Who will I do it to?
Anyone you want to.
And you've got a whole group to work with.
How are you going to do it?
Well, you can smile.
That would help.
Some of you can hug,
cards, squeezes,
milkshakes,
tears,
listening.
But let me tell you how you really do it.
Back in verse 18 of chapter 4,
therefore encourage each other with
these words.
These words.
If you say, well, why am I supposed to read the Bible?
Why do I have to read the Bible every day?
Well, it's food for your soul.
No army can march on an empty stomach.
It's a lamp for your path.
You shouldn't go out without a map.
You just get totally lost.
It's the way that God has decided to communicate to you
and declare His love and guidance and faithfulness to you
in your life.
Therefore, it's imperative that you hear Him speak to you on a daily basis.
And also, it is these
source of your instruction and edification
in the lives of other people.
So we are to encourage one another with the word of God.
So when we read the word of God,
one of the ways in which we can appropriate it to ourselves
is simply to say, here's something that I can use to encourage somebody.
I read Psalm 46, let's say.
And I opened it up and said, God is our refuge and strength,
a very present help and trouble.
Therefore, we will not fear, though, the earth be removed
and though the mountains be cast into the depths of the sea.
And at 11 o'clock somebody phoned up and told you
that their daughter found a tumor in their uterus
and they were going to have a test following on Monday.
Oh, what are you going to say to them?
We see, if you never read your Bible
and you never read Psalm 46 versus 1 and 2,
you're sure not going to use that.
But if you did, you might just say, you know what?
I could encourage you.
Psalm 46.
Let me read it to you on the phone.
It's strengthens.
It builds up.
It encourages.
The Thessalonians' needs were like our needs.
They were personal.
They were pastoral.
And the answer to their needs, theological.
The true pastor must always be a good theologian.
I get worried when I hear guys tell me, you know,
I'm not a theologian.
I know what they mean by that, I think.
But if they mean by that, you know,
I'm not getting into Christian doctrine
and explaining the Bible and stuff,
we ought to be really concerned.
Because I have nothing else to say to you,
except Christian doctrine and theology.
You come and ask my advice, my encouragement,
the only reason to listen to me is if it comes out of this book.
You want to be a Christian counselor?
I'll tell you how to be a Christian counselor.
You know where a Christian counselor is?
It is someone who is able to skillfully understand
and apply the word of God to the needs and longings
and hopes and aspirations of people around.
And the reason that we have fleshed out so much
in the way of professionalism is not solely due
to the depth of the needs of people,
although I recognize there are many
and there is need for skillful care in many cases.
But it partly is because maybe we need to do a little later
on First Thessalonians 5 and 11.
Therefore encourage one another and build each other up.
Now, you know, I don't think I'll come to the communion service tonight.
I just don't feel like it.
Yeah, I know you don't feel like it.
But at First Thessalonians 5 and 11 says you're supposed
to encourage one another and build one another up.
Now, this would be a good chance to do that.
Yeah, I think I'll be there.
I don't know who the people are getting baptized.
They don't know me, they don't need me.
Yeah, they do.
And since you've been called to encourage one another
and edify one another and build one another up,
you wouldn't want to miss a chance like that, would you?
You wouldn't want to miss the chance to take somebody
who has been brought from darkness into light,
has been made a child of the day,
is struggling to make their way through life,
is coming out of the buffetings of a week,
is trying to find their understanding of the scriptures
and make progress, and they put one foot in front of the other,
they fall down on their faces,
and they're looking around for somebody just to pick them up
and set them on, you wouldn't want to miss a chance
to obey the Bible, would you?
Loved ones, God's Word has been given to us,
not simply to increase our knowledge,
but to change our lives.
And the emphasis here is real clear.
The Jesus who is coming back is the same one who died for us
and rose again.
The coming King is our crucified and risen Savior,
therefore we've got nothing to fear.
And the ultimate reason for boldness on the day when he comes,
doesn't lie in who we are,
but lies in who he is.
P.S., you'll never know who you are
till you find out who he is.
And some of you are spending all your time trying to find yourself
and then you'll go look for him.
I want to tell you, meet him.
You'll find yourself.
Let's pray.
Father, thank you that your Word is clear.
I do pray that you will by your spirit
clarify the myriad thoughts and the minds
of our congregation here today.
Some of common are just unsure about all these things.
And I pray, Lord, that they may hear your gentle voice
speak into their lives, calling them to yourself.
Some of us have just come buffeted and beaten up.
We need a word of encouragement.
I pray that the truth of who you are and what you've done
may be the very underpinning of
all of our Christian experience.
And we thank you most of all
that when we look to Jesus, we look to one who is our redeemer.
And we look to one who is faithful and who is true.
So enable us to look from ourselves and a way to Him
for Jesus' sake, we ask it. Amen.
You've been listening to a message by Alistair Begg
from Truth for Life, and you're welcome to pass this sermon
along to others, but please don't charge for it or alter it
without written permission from Truth for Life.
This content has been provided to you free of charge
by the generous supporters of Truth for Life.
For additional information about how you can support Truth
for Life, please visit us online at truthforlife.org.
There you'll find free message downloads from Alistair Begg
as well as links to our podcast, mobile apps
and other resources to help you grow in your Christian faith.
Again, the website is truthforlife.org.
You can also follow us on Facebook and Twitter
to stay in touch with Truth for Life and Alistair Begg.
Truth for Life, where the learning is for living.
