The following message by Alistair Begg is made available by Truth For Life.
For more information, visit us online at truthforlife.org.
First Thessalonians and chapter 2, we continue our studies there,
and as we turn to that, just a moment of prayer.
Break thou the bread of life, dear Lord to me,
as you did break the loaves beside the sea.
Here on the sacred page, we seek you, Lord,
our spirits long for you, O living Word.
Amen.
Chapter 2 and chapter 3 of First Thessalonians
provide us with probably the most touching glimpse into the heart of the Apostle Paul
that is given anywhere in all of scripture.
If we were prepared to say that the Book of Romans reveals the mind of the Apostle,
then we would want to say that First Thessalonians, in a particular and special way,
reveals his heart.
Already in chapter 1, we have sent something of the intimacy that he feels
for these Thessalonian believers, and as we go through chapter 2 and chapter 3,
we're going to see again how his mind works, how his emotions are moved,
and how his soul is stirred.
The way in which he opens up this section is directly related to the historical context
out of which the birth of the church in Thessalonica came.
And that, of course, is recorded for us in the acts of the Apostles
in Acts chapter 17, and I encourage you for just a moment to turn back there,
where Luke records for us the way in which the Apostle and his friends arrived in Thessalonica.
At the beginning of chapter 17, when they had passed through Amphipolis and Apollonia,
they came to Thessalonica where there was a Jewish synagogue,
and it was in that context that Paul went into the synagogue,
and on three consecutive Sabbath days, he reasoned with them from the Scriptures,
explaining and proving all about the Lord Jesus.
Now, as a result of that, some of the Jews were told in verse 4 were persuaded,
and they joined Paul and Silas, as did a large number of God-feeling Greeks,
and not a few prominent women, but at that point, it all goes quite crazy.
And the end of their mission is quite ignominious.
Indeed, it is downright inglorious.
It is certainly not the kind of thing that we would expect or even anticipate
if we ourselves had been given the privilege of opening up the Scriptures
and preaching for a period of two or three weeks in a certain place.
And we read in verse 5 that some of the Jews were jealous,
so they rounded up some bad characters from the marketplace,
just the kind of people that hang around waiting for a fight or hoping for some action.
And they said, would you like some action?
And they said, oh, yes, certainly what are we going to do?
And they said, follow us.
And having put these bad characters from the marketplace together,
they formed a mob and they started our riot in the city.
And so the birth of the church in Thessalonica is concluded with a public riot,
the instigating of legal proceedings,
and the humiliating departure of the evangelist and his sidekick
from the city undercover of darkness.
That's what we're told in verse 10.
As soon as it was night, the brothers sent Paul and Silas away to Berea.
In other words, they had to slip out just when they got the opportunity to.
Now, given that Paul had left Thessalonica in this way,
it would appear from reading first Thessalonians chapter 2
that the opponents of the Apostle Paul and the opponents of the believers in Thessalonica
had used the way in which he left Thessalonica, his hasty disappearance,
as a basis for calling in question the validity of Paul's ministry.
They were dreadfully opposed to him, to the man, to his message,
and they were at the same time calling in question his motives.
John start writing of this,
healthily shows how a careful consideration of these opening verses here in chapter 2
provides us with an insight into the kind of slanderous accusations
which were coming against the Apostle Paul.
Indeed, without these slanderous accusations,
the opening verses of chapter 2 don't make any sense.
There is no reason for him to defend himself against nothing.
He is entering into a defense and apologia on account of the fact that people
had been seeking to undermine the believers in Thessalonica
and at the same time to underline, undermine his ministry.
And the kind of thing that they would have been saying to the folks left behind
was this. Well, he ran away, didn't he?
I mean, he took off at night, we never saw him again,
and he hasn't been heard of since.
He's obviously, they would be alleging insincere.
He might think he's different, but he's just like the rest.
He's another of those phonies that are going up and down the Aegean highway,
always looking for what they can get out of it,
always hoping for some sex, some money, some prestige, some power,
and this individual in upon whom you have placed so much attention
is no different from the rest.
And so when we opposed him and when he realized that his goose was cooked,
more concerned for his own skin than for your welfare,
he waited till it was dark and there he ran away.
So much for your apostle, so much for his message,
and so much for his motivation.
Now, it appears that some of the Thessalonicans have been buying in
to just this kind of idea, because the facts of Paul's abrupt departure
and the fact of his failure to return fitted the accusations
which were being made against him.
So he were coming around saying, well, they left, didn't he?
True, and he's not come back. True.
Well, let me explain to you why he left and why he hasn't returned,
because he's a phony. He's a con man.
He's just like all the others who've come through town.
And of course, there's greed the Apostle Paul.
And he doesn't answer these charges in chapter two and in the verses
before us this evening, out of a concern for his own self-interest,
but he answers the charges out of a deep concern for two things,
the truth of the gospel and the future of the church.
That is what stirred his heart.
That is what concerned him.
That the gospel's truth would be firmly fixed in the minds of his listeners
and that the church would be seen to be going on like a mighty army under God.
Love ones, I want to say to you tonight that you can generally tell
where a person stands in leadership and in ministry of the gospel
in any generation by those two issues.
Is he or she concerned simply for themselves
or do we detect in them an underlying, so gripping, passionate concern
for the truth of the gospel and for the future of the church?
Now, it is to this issue that he addresses himself in the verses that we consider now.
I want to break them up under three headings.
First of all, in verses one and two,
he acknowledges their ability to make an honest assessment of the details of their visit.
If you want something to hang verses one and two on,
you just can write in the margin or in your notes an honest assessment of why he'd been there.
Now, there is no denying the fact that they had suffered and they had been insulted.
People were saying you see they'd been insulted and they suffered
and the reason they suffered, of course, they were using wrongly.
Now, this suffering and this insult we can find again by turning back to Acts 16.
The previous events prior to arriving in Thessalonica are recorded for us here as well.
In Acts 16, we have the account of Paul and Silas being thrown into the jail in Philippine
and they are absolutely humiliated by this
and they are insulted by it.
Here, they had come preaching the gospel.
They had had their clothes torn off them. They were stripped naked.
They were tied up and they were publicly flawed.
They were not given a trial and then they were thrown in a dungeon and their feet were fastened in the stalks.
Despite the fact that they were Roman citizens, everything was absolutely done wrongly.
And you can imagine trying somehow or another to let people know that you are actually a fairly effective
ministry and a possible and you really are here from God and you have a great future
and the church is a great future and the gospel should be listened to
and the people are coming out around and saying you've got to be kidding.
We saw you in Philippine. You were stark naked. They gave you a hiding.
You were so bad they didn't even give you a trial.
They threw you in the jail and they put you in the stalks and you're asking us to believe
that you have a credible ministry.
Well, says Paul, there is no question that we suffered.
There is no question that when we arrived in Thessalonica, as he says in verse two,
we were once again confronted with strong opposition.
That's what we were noting there in chapter 17, but he says, despite those facts,
we continued to preach the gospel irrespective of the consequences.
In other words, we remained true to our convictions.
People, unless they are disengaged of their senses, will only suffer for that in which they believe.
People may be prepared to suffer for lesser factors,
but Paul was concerned here to recognize that we were not afraid to tell you this gospel
in spite of strong opposition. The phrase there we dared to tell you actually means
we were prepared to be outspoken concerning these matters.
The phraseology has to do with speaking freely, speaking openly, speaking fearlessly.
In other words, he says you will recall that although we had had a hiding in the previous place,
although we were not able to anticipate what would happen before we left,
nevertheless, we were marked by outspokenness, by frankness, by plainness of speech,
and all of this, an indication of our integrity.
Now, you will notice, perhaps, that in these first few verses, he says you know a number of times.
Indeed, he starts the chapter. You know this.
And then in verse 2, he says, as you know, and then again in verse 5, he begins, you know.
And then in verse 9, surely you remember.
And then again in verse 10, you are witnesses.
Now this is very, very important because what he's pointing out is that all the facts
required for his vindication were common knowledge.
His integrity has been revealed in his willingness to suffer for what he believes in,
and also to engage in ministry that was marked by nothing that was underhanded.
He had nothing to hide, nothing to hide.
This is the great concern in the political realm in our day.
How can we possibly find someone to serve who has nothing to hide?
Do we have ministers? Do we have pastors?
Do we have leaders in our church who are hiding stuff from God, from themselves,
from their families, from their friends, from their congregations?
John Stark, again, happy are those Christian leaders today who hate hypocrisy and love it to
integrity, who have nothing to conceal or be ashamed of, who are well known for who and what they
are, and who are able to appeal without fear to God and the public as their witnesses.
We need more transparency and openness of this kind today.
And surely we would agree with that.
Yesterday's newspaper carried all these dreadful accounts of the leadership of the three-and-a-half
million Catholics in Ero, in southern Ireland, and the uncovering of yet another horrible
train of misdemeanors on the part of established clergy, dreadful predicament of those who have
everything to hide and lack this transparency. Paul says, you know, brothers, that our visit to you
wasn't a failure. People can say it was a failure, you know it wasn't. Yes, there was suffering,
yes, there was opposition, but we want you to understand that our very integrity is to be seen
in our willingness to be totally open with you and also to endure suffering for the sake of the
gospel. So he recognizes in verses one and two that they're able to make an honest assessment
of his coming to them. Secondly, in verses three and four, he speaks to the issue of his present
appeal to them. The appeal that he and his colleagues are making, he says in verse three,
the appeal we make does not spring from error or impure motives. Let me read this if I may
in Philip's paraphrase. Our message to you is true. Our motives are pure. Our conduct is
absolutely above board. We speak under the solemn sense of being entrusted by God with the gospel.
We do not aim to please men, but to please God who knows as through and through. Our motives are
pure. Our conduct is absolutely above board. Now look at the way he unpacks this. How do you view
yourself, Paul? And what essentially is your ministry? Well, he says here is our privileged responsibility.
We are those who have been approved by God to be entrusted with the gospel. We are not in
ourselves anything particularly slick. We are not in ourselves particularly powerful. We are not
of peculiar repute. There is nothing really about us that would make us distinctive or desirable
by the masses of the people. The only thing that we can say is this that somehow or another
God in His mercy and in His wisdom has chosen the likes of us, has approved us to be entrusted
with the message of the gospel. That's all that a pastor is. That's all that a minister of the
gospel is. He's just an ordinary flawed individual, just the same kind of person as other people,
but God for some reason has chosen to approve him and to entrust him with the gospel.
In other words, the pastor, the teacher is not an owner. He is assured.
Now in addressing himself in this way, Paul is distancing himself from the many
itinerant vagrants whom he also knew had been working the crowds. Let me quote from one commentator.
There has probably never been such a variety of religious cults and philosophic systems as in
Paul's day. This was written before the late 20th century. We might be able to rival it now.
East and West had united and intermingled to produce an amalgam of real piety. High moral
principles, crude superstition and gross license. Oriental mysteries, Greek philosophy,
and local godlings competed for favor under the tolerant ages of Roman indifference.
Holy men of all creeds and that's in quotes, holy men of all creeds and countries,
popular philosophers, magicians, astrologers, crackpots and cranks, the sincere and the spurious,
the righteous and the rogue, swindlers and saints, jostled and clamored for the attention
of the credulous and the skeptical. It's got a very contemporary ring to it, that quote,
doesn't it? It was written generations before now. But think of this. All creeds and countries,
popular philosophers, magicians, astrologers, crackpots and cranks, the sincere and the spurious,
the righteous, the rogue, the swindlers, the saints, all jostling and clamoring for the attention
of the credulous and the skeptical. Is that not an out picture of the late 20th century?
You go in the bookstore and you're confronted by all these books on spirituality.
Some are written by righteous men, some are written by rogues,
some are written by saints and others are written by sinners, some are written by Christians
and some are written by crackpots. And the man in the street, the woman in the street wanders
in and out with no possible way of adjudicating on. Well says Paul, I want you to understand
for the sake of the gospel and the future of the church, I want you to understand three things.
Number one, our message is true. Number two, our methods are above board. Number three,
our motives are pure. And this in direct contrast to those who were marked by error,
by impurity and by dirty dealings. Why is the message true? Because it is the message of God.
We're not trying to please men, but God, we are not speaking anything, but the gospel which God
has given us. Let people come to us in accuses of all kinds of things, but let them not accuses
of contriving the message or making it up. We're not offering them Mary Baker Eddy as the supplement
to the Bible. We're not offering them the Book of Mormon. We're not offering them a book about
Hindu avatars. All we're prepared to say is that the message by which we want to stand and upon which
we take our stand is a message which is true because it is the message of God. It is God's message,
not our message. We are merely the stewards of what is proclaimed. In the same way our motives
are not, he says, impure. We are not making an appeal to you on the basis of impure motives.
The word is used actually in chapter 4 and in verse 7 concerning sexual matters. For God did not
call us to be impure, that is to engage in sexual immorality but to live a holy life. And there is
perhaps the assertion on the parts of some that when in Acts chapter 17 and they preached and some
of the Jews were persuaded as did a large number of God-fearing Greeks and not a few prominent women.
Some of his opponents were probably prepared to say and the only reason you've got the women
with you Paul is because of the fact that your motives are impure. Paul says no they're not.
And thirdly our methods are not the kind of fraudulent stuff that you see on the other
itinerant vagrants. We did not stoop to offering fraudulent blessings nor did we stoop to deny the
cost of discipleship. If you want to identify the con men and the shams in our generation,
let me tell you how you'll know them. They are going around offering things to people which they
can neither substantiate from Scripture nor produce and or suggesting to people that the Christian
life makes no demands upon them at all and that you may know Christ, love Christ and follow Christ
without facing the hard edge of discipleship. Paul says we didn't do that. We were unprepared to do
that. Others may approach things in that way and they will do so because they're seeking to cut a
favor with men but he says we are seeking to please God who tests our hearts. Look at that statement
in verse 4. We're not trying to please men but God who tests our hearts. Do you realize that this
is what it means to be in the ministry of a gospel? Why is it so easy to get it the wrong way around?
We are not trying to please God but men who don't know our hearts.
So easy to get it wrong. And here he gives us this wonderful example. The word docha madzuil is
the same word you get in 2 Timothy, 215, where he urges Timothy, study to show yourself approved
under God. The reason he's prepared to call Timothy to that level of approval is because he himself
lives under that approval. And it is a picture here of those who have been tried and found fit
for service. We're not trying to please men but God who tests our hearts. So in verses 1 and 2
there is an honest assessment of his coming. In verses 3 and 4 he addresses the way in which they
have made their present appeal. And in verses 5 and 6 finally he refers to their past approach.
You see the tense changes. In verse 3 he's in the present tense the appeal we make. In verse 4
in the contrary we speak present tense. We're not trying present tense to please men but God.
Now verse 5 he then changes to the past tense. He says now here's something else you know.
Past tense we never use flattery.
Three things he says we did not use flattery. We said no to using flattery.
Kola Kiyas the only time is used in the whole New Testament.
So we obviously decided to use it very purposefully. It's never ever used again in the whole
of Holy Scripture. And the word here is expressive of the kind of methodology which one man uses to
seek to gain influence over somebody else. They weren't manipulators. He didn't try and trick
them. He didn't try and fool them. We did not he says use flattery. Secondly we did not wear masks
to veil a sense of greed you notice that. We didn't use flattery nor did we put on a mask to
cover up greed. They were not pretending to serve while all the time wishing to be served.
They were not pretending to give while all the time wanting to get.
And finally in verse 6 he says nor did we live hungering for compliments.
This is a tremendous test of ministry. This is the test by which all the minister should be judged.
You should feel free to assess ministry on the basis of these things. The man, his message and his
motives. Is he a flatterer in the way he uses the Bible? Does he seek to curry favor with those who
are under his care? Does he endeavor to tell them what they want to hear so that they may love
him for that and may do what he then calls them to? Is that what you get when you worship in this
place? Is that what you find when you listen to your Sunday school teacher? Is that the sense
that you get in your youth group? And how about when you get behind the scenes and you see what moves
them? Are they using the opportunities of service simply to get things while all the time
appearing to want to give the only one to get? And do they go up and down on the basis of whether
they're being praised or criticized? For you see all three of these things are elicit ways of
seeking to build ourselves up.
The stewards of the gospel, those who serve God in the cause of the gospel then and now are
primarily responsible neither to the church nor to its boards but to God himself. I want you to
understand that. That is not to say that within the framework of interpersonal relationships,
within the context of the one another ministries of the church, that those who are in leadership,
those who have the privileges of pastoral ministry, those who fulfill the calling which I fulfill
are somehow or another remove from all those one another accountability factors. That is
absolutely not so. We are brothers and sisters in Christ and we are accountable on that level.
But when you have said that, the minister of the gospel is not primarily responsible to the church
or to any ecclesiastical structures established by the church whether they are bishops or synods
or whatever you like to call them. No, the minister of the gospel is on a much higher task than that
because the minister of the gospel is responsible to God himself. We are not trying to please
man but God who tests our hearts. In other words, on the one hand, this is far more disconcerting
because God scrutinizes our hearts. God knows our secrets and God's standards are very high.
On the flip side of that, it is really freeing to be in this situation since God is more knowledgeable,
more impartial and more merciful than any being, human being or ecclesiastical committee.
So, for example, you take the ministry of Jonathan Edwards. Jonathan Edwards profoundly used
of God, uniquely established in the cause of the gospel, tremendously impactful as a result of the
brain that God had given him and the ministry of the Word. He was eventually thrown out of his
church because they had some little quirk that he didn't like. What was he to say?
While he was ultimately to recognize as Paul does when he writes to the Corinthians,
in 1 Corinthians chapter 4 and in verse 3, I care very little if I am judged by you or by any
human court. Indeed, I do not even judge myself. My conscience is clear, but that doesn't
make me innocent. It is the Lord who judges me. Therefore, judge nothing before the appointed time,
wait till the Lord comes. He will bring delight with his hidden and darkness and he will expose the
motives of men's hearts and at that time, each will receive his praise from God. In other words,
he says, if you want to know how seriously I take my ministry, then understand this. It is far
more significant to me, says Paul, that I will answer before the bar of God's judgment that I will
be led by the role-coaster of emotion, which comes either from the adulation of the people
or from the criticism of the people. And yet so many pastors live tyrannized in that dilemma.
They live their lives completely compelled by the longing for affirmation.
And so they are ensnared by the desire for human adulation or on the other hand, they live
bowed down and crushed by the tyranny of human criticism. Now, don't misunderstand this. We're not
talking about individuals living above and beyond the pale of accountability. Not only talking about
stoical individuals who have no concern for what others may think. We're talking about this.
The task of the gospel is so significant and so immense and so profound that no seminary can ever
make a pastor. No church can ever make a pastor. Only God can do that. And on account of that,
it is God who will judge the motives of the heart. And whether a man cons everybody for all of
his life and lives as a charlatan or whether he is marked by integrity through all of his days,
Paul says, get ready for this. There is going to come a day when the judgment of God scrutinizes
the man, his message and his motives. And that says Paul is so significant that I refuse to be
ensnared by a desire for human compliments and I refuse to be tyrannized by the effect of human
criticism. And in that, we have an amazing model for ministry versus seven and following.
Provide further instruction for all who minister the Word of God and for all who receive that
ministry and so may God make us wise together for his glory and for our good. Let us pray together.
Our gracious God and loving Father, we thank you now for the privilege and opportunities of
this day which you have so graciously given us. We thank you for the health and strength which we
enjoy. We thank you that all of our joy is touched with pain and with uncertainty.
We thank you that shadows fall on even our brightest hours, that there are thorns on the beauty of
rose trees in order to remind us that earth joys should not ensnare us but should merely prepare us
for the day when we see you and are made like you. We pray that your Word today may find a resting
place within our hearts, that we would be diligent in doing your work in your way,
that you will save us Lord from becoming con men, men pleasers, those who engage in the
deeds of darkness and use their position as a cloak further in discretion.
Lord, it is a realistic fear,
less having preached to others, I myself should become a cast away.
Oh God, grant that we may be men and women of integrity in our motives and in our message
and in the common things of life it's goings out and in.
May we follow Paul's example. May we know the fullness of your spirit.
May it please you to allow Parkside Church a tiny place in the unfolding of your purposes.
Help us tonight to curl up small so that everyone may see what a great and majestic
and holy and wonderful God you are. We commit one another into your care and keeping
through our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Amen.
This content has been provided to you free of charge by the generous supporters of truth for life.
For additional information about how you can support truth for life please visit us online at truthforlife.org.
There you'll find free message downloads from Alistair Begg as well as links to our podcast,
mobile apps and other resources to help you grow in your Christian faith.
Again the website is truthforlife.org. You can also follow us on Facebook and Twitter to stay
in touch with truth for life and Alistair Begg. Truth for life where the learning is for living.
