The following message by Alistair Begg is made available by Truth For Life.
For more information, visit us online at truthforlife.org.
Again, I invite you to turn with me to First Thessalonians 2.
And prayer together.
Make the book live to me, O Lord.
Show me thyself within thy word.
Show me myself and show me my Savior.
And make the book live to me for Jesus' sake. Amen.
But what's he really like?
That's a question we often ask of individuals.
It's not that we feel that we don't know them.
We know something of them, but we don't know what they're really like.
How do you find out what a person's really like?
Well, there are a number of ways in which we can make an attempt at that.
We can, of course, spend an amount of personal time with them,
provided they're prepared to take us as it were into the inner circle of their thinking.
But if we're not granted that opportunity, one of the best ways of all
is to read the correspondence of the individual.
I just this week ordered a book which contains the correspondence
over a number of years of the late Dr. Martin Lloyd Jones.
Now, I have read hundreds and hundreds of pages of his biography,
but I am so excited to get this book and read his letters.
Because in the reading of his letters, there is going to be that pulling back
as it were of the curtain of the man's heart and soul and mind
in a way that perhaps won't have come out even in the best skill of the biographer.
And to the degree that that is true, it is also true of the letters of the New Testament.
And to one degree or another, first Thessalonians is uniquely gifted in the sense
that it pulls back from our gaze, the veil of the Apostle Paul,
and gives to us a slant on the Apostle Paul that really doesn't come out
anywhere else in the whole of the New Testament, at least not to this degree.
What is it that moves in as he thinks?
What is it that stirs his soul?
What is it that massages his heart?
Well, we've been discovering already in the second chapter something of that,
and as we continue tonight, we discover more of it.
For those of us who like us where to get beyond the surface, to get behind the scenes,
first Thessalonians, as far as the Apostle Paul is concerned,
is as good a place to start as any at all.
Now, in the opening verses of the chapter, we saw that Paul had been concerned
to respond to the charge that had been leveled against he and his colleagues
in relationship to the whole matter of honesty or integrity.
And if you allow your eye to scan back up the text,
you will see that he is affirming there very much, very clearly,
this matter of their personal integrity.
Now, when we move from the sixth verse into the second half of it and then into verse seven,
we discover that he moves from the issue of integrity to the matter of sensitivity.
And we have provided for us here one of the most telling pictures
of the heart of the Apostle Paul that is in all of Holy Scripture.
And it contains a tremendous challenge for all and any who would be engaged in pastoral ministry.
And it establishes an exceptionally high standard
by which to gauge our responsibilities in that vein.
We are confronted by the fact that Paul displays a twofold commitment
in these verses before us, not simply these verses it proceeds from here,
but certainly here.
And we discover that he displays his commitment first of all to the Word of God
and then to the people of God.
And this, of course, is an essential element of pastoral ministry.
It is impossible to be meaningfully involved in ministering to the people of God
without that twofold commitment, a commitment which is first of all to the Word of God
and then to the people of God.
John start in summarizing this in his own inimicable fashion,
says that here we have for us the two chief characteristics of pastoral ministry,
namely truth and love.
And so start these things are absolutely essential
and especially in association with each other.
So for example, we're not surprised when we read in Ephesians 4,
concerning the gifts that have been given to the church,
especially that of pastor and teacher.
And in verse 15, we read from Paul, he says,
speaking the truth in love, we will in all things grow up into him
who is the head that is Christ.
And the balance is absolutely essential.
This balance between a commitment to truth and a commitment to love.
Some of us, for example, in championing truth
and displaying a great concern for truth, may display very little love.
While others of us who are committed to embracing love
may, in the same regard, show a scanned regard for truth.
And it is therefore imperative that truth and love exist side by side,
is it where sleep in the same bed, drive in the same car,
coexist in the same heart, are manifest in the same family of faith.
This, of course, is one of the great benefits of shared ministry
in a pastoral team.
Insofar as you can often find within the team that helpful balance
between both of these elements.
And indeed, within that framework of mutual accountability,
there is the opportunity for those who may be tempted in their love
to grow soft, to be hardened by the reminder of truth.
And those who in their commitment to truth may be tempted to grow hard
and be thereby softened by the reminder of love.
And it is these two wonderful elements which we see in these verses before us.
Now, I'd like to summarize them by considering with you,
first of all, the concern of their hearts and then the content of their message
and then the conduct of their lives.
It is not my intention this evening that this would become a three-part study.
And so, let me set myself to the task along with you.
First of all, then, the concern of their hearts.
I'm actually working in reverse order here.
The concern is expressed in verse 12,
encouraging, comforting, and urging you to do what?
To live lives worthy of God who calls you into his kingdom and glory.
What is your great concern, Paul, and your colleagues,
for the Thessalonian believers?
My great concern, our shared concern, says Paul,
is that they might live lives worthy of God.
Philip's paraphrases it.
Our only object was to help you to live lives worthy of God.
Now, this may seem at first blush as such a very straightforward and simple statement
as to almost be unworthy of any further comment.
But remember that we must always deal with scripture in the context
in which it is set.
And Paul is here responding to news which has reached him
of various allegations concerning his motivation in ministry.
And in expressing here the great concern which he shares with his brethren
for the Thessalonian believers,
he is not only saying something positively concerning his desire for them,
but he is also distancing himself from the charlatans
who were so much a part of the contemporary scene.
Because clearly there were those known to the Thessalonians,
perhaps even ministering amongst the Thessalonians,
who were in the ministry for whatever they could get out of it
in terms of prestige and more than likely in terms of profit.
And Paul has sought to distance himself from these characters
in the opening verses of chapter two.
And when he says, I want you to know what the concern of our hearts is,
it is that you would live life's worthy of God.
He wants his readers to understand that his interest was not in the ascendancy
of he and his colleagues in the popularity polls.
But it was rather in the maturity of his spiritual children in the things of God.
Now this is to be the focus of pastoral ministry.
You want to be a pastor, you want to be an elder in the church,
what then should the focus be?
It should be this, that those under our care
and amongst whom we've been given the privilege of ministering
should be aware of the fact that our deepest concern for them
is that they would in all things grow up into Christ,
that they would understand the Bible, that they would believe the Bible,
that they would obey the Bible, and that it would become to them their companion and their guide.
And as a result of all of that, that they would go on to spiritual maturity.
In the fourth chapter of Colossians, he says that the great concern of he and others
for the Colossian believers is that they might be mature,
and that they might be fully assured of their faith.
In fact, in that letter to the Colossians,
he mentions this wonderful character, Epiferus, and he says of this of Epiferus.
Epiferus works hard for you, even here, for he prays constantly and earnestly for you,
that you may become mature Christians and may fulfill God's will for you.
From my own observation, I can tell you that he has a real passion for your welfare.
What a tremendous testimony. Colossians chapter 4 verse 12 and following
is the section from which I'm quoting. All to have the spirit of Epiferus in relationship to our
interests in the lives of one another. Epiferus works hard for you, and then he explains
the hard work is in constant prayer, earnest prayer, and his prayer is that they might become
mature Christians and may fulfill God's will. How then should we pray for one another?
We should pray along the lines of Epiferus, earnestly and constantly, that you might become mature
Christians and may fulfill God's will. Now, let us just notice the phrase again. The great concern
is that you might live lives worthy of God. What does this mean other than the fact that the
concern in pastoral ministry is to see the lives of men and women attached to Jesus Christ.
Attached to Jesus Christ is very, very important. Not attached to us as individuals, no matter what
elements of affection or interest may be established. Not attached to Parkside Church as an institution
ultimately, although we're grateful for the privilege of ministering in the lives of all
whom God calls to this place. But seeing men and women attached to Jesus Christ.
In 11 years or coming on 12 now as we move forward in ministry here, one of the great
sadness in ministry in any pastoral context is seeing people go, seeing them move south because
they've been promoted or moving west or moving out onto the eastern seaboard. It is always with a
great sense of reluctance that I shake a hand and bow in prayer with a family or a couple as they
come to tell me that the time has come for their departure. And even more so when it would appear
that in the kind of church mentality of our day, there are those who would move away from us because
for whatever reason something was not being poured out in the right quantity or in the right style.
And when the pain of that grips of pastor's heart, the great solution to it is right here.
In reminding ourselves of our ultimate calling, to encourage men and women to live lives worthy of God.
Therefore we can rejoice wherever they are attached and to whom so ever they become attached,
provided their attachments lead them to the great attachment to the Lord Jesus Himself
who is head and Lord of the church. But you know that doesn't come easily in pastoral ministry.
If you talk with pastors and they're honest, they will tell you that that is the case.
One of my good friends laboring a great distance from here
took the opportunity of ministering in a church. And now within a matter of two or three years,
the previous pastor has come back into town. He hasn't come back to work in business or
in a Christian school, but he has come back in to serve in a church. Not one of the existing churches,
but to serve in a new church. To serve in a new church, which he has determined, he will plant
very close to the site of his old church. And so my friends stood to minister the word of God.
Some months ago now on a Sunday morning, a notice that somehow or another, he was absent some two or
three hundred members of his normal congregation. Only to discover that this gentleman had come back
into town and reestablished a work and taken three hundred members of the church with him on the
first Sunday morning. Now you've got to be possessed of a great spirit of something to be able
to absorb that. And as I shared with my colleague and as I listened to him recount these events and
as I entered into something of his struggle, I tried to remind him of what I've tried to
remind myself and others of that if the ultimate focus in pastoral ministry, if the ultimate concern
is to see you dear ones, walking worthy of the calling of God, if that really is core level
the commitment, not to establish an empire, not to be well thought of, not to have big numbers,
not to have significance, if that really is the issue, then irrespective of the pain or the
disappointment, we will still be able to rejoice in seeing people attached to Jesus Christ.
John the Baptist is for me the best illustration of this when in John chapter 3, his disciples come
to him and give him the news that this Galilee and Carpenter who is on the other side of the river
and up the street is beginning to have a tremendous success in his ministry. And they came to John in
verse 26 of John chapter 3 and they said to him, Rabbi, the man who was with you on the other side of
the Jordan, the one you testified about, well he's baptizing and everyone is going to him.
John business is falling off. Things are not going the way they were going into this John
replied, a man can receive only what is given him from heaven. You yourselves can testify that
I said I'm not the Christ, but I'm sent ahead of him. The bride belongs to the bridegroom,
the friend or the best man who attends the bridegroom waits and listens for him and is full of joy
when he hears the bridegroom's voice. That joy is mine and is now complete. He must become
greater and I must become less and God knows how much in pastoral ministry we need to be taught
that lesson and He will continue to teach it to us again and again and again and again and all
the way to heaven for surely the truth will never finally dawn. The best man is the best man,
he's not the bridegroom and you're allowed to get excited but you're only allowed to get excited
for the bridegroom. You're not allowed to get excited about the bride except that she's going to
belong to the bridegroom and in the same way our great excitement is to see men and women
attached to Jesus Christ because you see when we get to heaven will all going to be attached
all over again so it would be a dreadful shame to assume that a preoccupation with ecclesiastical
attachment became the issue of our ministry. My great concern, our great concern he says
is that you, our spiritual children, would be living progressively and effectively
in the realm of God's rule that is His kingdom and in the light of His glory,
meaning simply that we should act in keeping with our calling. We have by grace been made
kids of the kingdom and we should therefore live as such. Well then that is Luke 2ndly at the
content of their message if that was the concern of their hearts. The content of their message is
stated twice in verse 8 and then again in verse 9 we loved you so much that we were delighted to
share with you not only the gospel of God but our lives as well, the gospel of God, verse 9 at the
end while we preached the gospel of God to you. Notice that it was by their life and by their
doctrine that they declared their love for them. They did not burden them by seeking their financial
support and they did bless them by sharing the gospel with them. That is the nature of verse 9,
surely you remember, but there's our toil and our hardship. We work night and day in order not to
be a burden to anyone. Now in most of the considerations that I have heard of these verses and I
understand why the line of thinking goes like this, you'll notice that they did not just share the
gospel but they also share their lives, okay? And then the whole drift of the Bible study goes on to
the nature of what it means to share our lives which is fine. But inevitably what happens is
there is some kind of tacit assumption about the fact that they are actually sharing the gospel
and there are unique circumstances here in relationship to this apostolic ministry which are not
part and parcel of normal pastoral ministry on our day whereby as a result of the generosity of
God's people we are sustained in order that we might share the gospel of God and I'm not in any
sense diminishing the nature of sharing our lives with one another but I want you to notice
that the way in which Paul expresses that is not about cups of coffee and it's not about hanging
out at Wendy's which is the way the Bible studies usually go. Or if you would share your life with us
then you would do this and this and this and this but all you want to do is share the gospel with us.
That's not the drift. The drift is our preoccupation was in sharing the gospel
and in order to share the gospel we worked so that you wouldn't be deprived of finance but our
objective in the sharing of our lives was subservient to the sharing of the gospel.
For it is perfectly possible in pastoral ministry to be well thought of in relationship to the
expectations of the people of God and yet to fail to do the very thing which is the absolute
essential in pastoral ministry namely to share the gospel of God. Now I wonder are you following
you see because in terms of the expectations of people and I'll speak as straightforwardly as I
can in these moments and I hope in no sense self-servingly although you will have to judge that
how do we know that our pastors love us? Because we know that pastors are supposed to love their
people. So how do we know that our pastors love us? Now the answer you see is a bit like Gary
Chapman's love languages story here. You remember Chapman came into town and did his love languages
thing and the story of the husband and wife who come to the counselor and the wife says I don't
think my husband loves me and he says you've got to be out of your mind. I brought you flowers
every Friday afternoon for 15 years and she says yes but that doesn't communicate your love to me
and he says well funnily enough I don't really think you love me either and she says you've
got to be out of your mind. I've made your breakfast for you for the last 20 years and he says yeah but
that isn't really the kind of communication of love for which I'm looking and so says Chapman
we've got to find a language of communication whereby they are both giving and receiving love.
It's an interesting little thought and I think you probably found it helpful as I did when I encountered
it the first time in Colorado Springs some years ago when I was sharing a conference with him there
but here's the issue it struck me that if unless you articulate clearly to your congregation
what's going on in terms of what you're doing as a pastor they may be responding to you with a
different kind of love language okay it goes like this. Alistair I would like you to come to my
home for dinner. Indeed if you don't come to my home for dinner I want you to know I'm not joining
the church okay I don't sound like an invitation that sounds like an ultimatum to me or a pastor
Stokey we would like you to do this or pastor Owen we'd like you to do that or pastor Brandelini
we'd like you to do that and to the degree that you're prepared to do this and do it with consistency
and do it when we want you to then we know that you love us and everybody's got their own language
of expectation as to how they can find out whether their pastors love them I don't want to
overstate this but I do want to state it the day that you'll discover that I don't love you anymore
is the day that I stop studying my Bible to come and preach it to you that's the day you can
assume I don't love you anymore now you can assume that I don't love you because I didn't meet
one of your expectations and that's all right and I understand it but let me tell it to you now
here we loved you so much we were delighted to share with you the gospel of God not only the gospel
but our lives as well but it was in the shading of the gospel that they communicated their love
and the content of the message and the faithfulness of the task was absolutely foundational now how
is this gospel communicated down at the end of verse 9 you see while we preached the gospel of God
to you the word denotes here the action of a herald and a herald proclaims what is given him
to say the herald's responsibility was not to make stuff up nor was it to respond to the needs
of those around him nor was it to tell jokes nor was it to make people feel good but it was to stand
up speak up and shut up and he did not originate the message he received the message and he passed
it on and that's exactly what Paul and the others were doing he said we didn't want to be a burden
to you that's why we worked so as not to reduce your cash flow and we worked so that we could
preach to you the gospel of God the gospel preacher is not at liberty to substitute his view of the
need of the moment for the God-given message of the cross and how we need young men in the ministry
in our day to understand this it's when a man understands that he is a herald that you will find
an urgency in his message if he doesn't understand that he is a herald or if he thinks that he
has a responsibility to impress or to woo or to warm or to stir or to tickle or to cozy then every
week you spend all his time saying to himself oh I wonder how I can meet this need I wonder how I
can deal with this I wonder how I can put that to rights that's a dreadful tyranny I wouldn't like
that job the responsibility of the herald is to go into the throne room of the king to receive the
message from the king to come out into the streets and to say what the king has said
you see then the people can get a spirit of expectation and then the preacher can get a spirit
of authority and yet sadly so much the past is for preaching if I may say so as graciously as I
can is nothing other than well-meaning souls rehearsing information at best rehearsing information
I just this week I've been listening to a tape of a gentleman who shall remain nameless and he does
not pay but scant attention to the word of God and spends a solid 35 minutes recounting dreams
that he has had over the last seven months of his life some of the most bizarre and far-fetch
material that one's ears have ever encountered and my heart grieved for his listening congregation
and if I have the chance ever to speak with him as I hope I might I say hey buddy you're a herald
not a dreamer be a herald then your congregation will grow in confidence because they will know
what the content of the message is and they'll be able to determine whether you're sticking with
the message whether you're fulfilling the part of a herald or whether you're just becoming a
charlatan like others or will you say but you're not an apostle no we're not apostles but the
teaching of the apostle has been represerved for us and bequeathed to us in the Bible and it is
this Bible now that we turn to which we turn we're to read it keep it study it expound it apply it
and obey it John start again he says every authentic Christian ministry begins here with the
conviction that we have been called to handle God's word as its guardians and heralds we must
not be satisfied with rumors of God as a substitute for good news from God so we have the concern
of their hearts we have the content of their message I leave it at that because it is somewhat
repetitive in relationship to some previous studies in the morning from Corinthians and then
finally we come to the concern of their hearts which they display how concerned were Paul and his
colleagues for these people the answer is they were very concerned and their concern is displayed in
the metaphors which he employs he isn't simply here a herald or a guardian but he is also he says
like a mother first seven we were gentle among you how gentle will gentle like a mother
caring for her little children it's quite a picture isn't it I'm not sure I'd be so fast to
use that picture especially if you want to be you know a tough guy and Paul was a pretty tough guy
I think he had to be he couldn't have taken all these beatings and hammerings and everything
and still be standing up I'll be it enabled by the spirit of God but he was a tough guy and yet he
says you know as apostles of Christ we could have been a burden to you but we were gentle among you
gentle see a mother with our little one so wonderful thing from the very first moments of birth it
is an incredible attachment between a mother and a child I think especially in the early days
there is an attachment there to which the father is simply an observer all the child's
psychologists can correct me if I'm wrong but in my observation and you don't have to be a
genius to work it out there are certain prerequisites with which the mother is availed to which
the father can only observe and there is an obvious attachment there getting the picture now
trying to say it is kindly in this sort of nicely as I can but there is an attachment there
and there is a gentleness there and that's why sometimes in the post-natal words the mother
cringes at the way in which the pediatrician picks the child up I can remember in the early days
of our first child going back to the pediatrician over six month period and the way in which
this man doctor white picked this kid up was unbelievable I mean with every promontory of his
body picked him up and spun him around and I could see my wife cringing at the way that he grabbed him
and it wasn't held by the fact that if three times out of four he would bundle the thing up give
it to the nurse who was with him and say she's doing absolutely fine it doesn't instill a lot of
confidence in you and certainly the mother was glad to have him back come here I'll look after
you I'll be gentle with you in a way that no one else would be a mother comes down to the level
of their child a mother uses the language of their child whatever that secret language is a
mother spends many of her days playing infantile games with her children that a father only comes
back and has a few minutes of patience for at the end of the day as he stumbles over all these
bricks and toys and bicycles and contraptions of all manner of things and things he's done a great
service if he manages to put in 15 minutes and he doesn't realize that the mother has been
down here in gentleness for most of the day well you see then it is imperative that as opportunity
presents itself as we have the privilege of interacting in our lives with one another that in the
processes of birth and death and living and dying in pain and discovery and joy and in sorrow
in marriage and in all these other things that we would be able to express that kind of gentleness
I tell people all the time I I'm so glad of the colleagues that God has brought around me here
and continues to bring around me guys who are far better at every other thing and I tell people
with regularity I do know a little of what I'm supposed to do in teaching in marrying in burying
in baptizing and in dedicating and after that and even in the midst of that it gets thin real fast
but I can guarantee you you'll know I love you if you give me the privilege who's going to say
of marrying you of sharing with you in those elements of pastoral life but don't gauge our love for
you on the basis of self expectations in the midst of literally thousands of people who regards
themselves as somehow attached to Parkside Church it is not humanly possible to meet those expectations
gentleness of a mom the affection of a mom
mom's affection for we ones is quite remarkable I don't need to say much concerning that
except perhaps to say don't let's mistake style for substance the way in which affection is displayed
maybe as simple as the squeeze of a hand the glance of an eye a simple word a small note a little
encouragement but it needs to be there it has to be there and also that a mother will display
that gentle love also in self sacrifice and Paul says we cared for you like a mother cares for
our little children we were gentle we were affectionate we were sacrificial we weren't a burden to
you instead we eased burdens for you every child knows the sacrifice of a mom because it's always
at the dumb times that we remember that we needed those certain things instantaneously oh I'm
supposed to take a such and such when now and then the mother has to go and pull out the ironing
board and do one of those great deals so it was like 11 15 just as they're falling asleep I need to
have my such and such in the morning okay fine fine and I have the most profound as you do
recollections of the sacrificial love of my mother I can remember her purchasing clothes for me
which I know she purchased at her own expense in terms of her own personal wardrobe
she never told me that but it was easy to see that kind of sacrifice doesn't come with a banner
you know is better felt than tell the concern of their hearts is displayed in their mothering of them
and secondly and finally in their fathering of them verse 11 for you know that we dealt with each
of you as a father deals with his own children if you being earthly know how to give good gifts to
your children every earthly father knows what it is to enjoy giving things to his children every
earthly father knows the responsibility of putting constraints upon his children every earthly
father understands the need to see his children established in body and mind and in spirit
and every earthly father needs to recognize that he has a responsibility to live both by example
as well as by instruction and Paul is able to say in verse 10 you are witnesses and so is God
of these three things we were holy righteous and blameless among you what a tremendous challenging
trilogy we were holy in terms of our relationship with God we were righteous in terms of our
dealings with other people and we were blameless in terms of the observation of the watching world
it's quite a platform for fatherhood wouldn't you say
and then he says in the process of being a father to you in the faith
in the training that we gave you in the instruction we provided some of it would be formal
and some of it would be informal some of it would be now let's talk about this and others of it
would just be observed in the process of life the way a young man walks is largely the way his
father walks the way he talks is largely the way his father talks and so he says in verse 12
as a father deals with his own children you would recognize that there was within our
experience in dealing with you the great allegement element of encouraging and of comforting
and of urging again it's an awful tremendous challenge isn't it both in physical terms
in relationship to the responsibilities of earthly parenting and then beyond that the whole
issue of spiritual parenting and pastoral care because again the great propensity for many of us
is rather than encouraging to be goading rather than comforting to be annoying and aggravating
rather than urging and a kind of compassionate urging to be cajoling and reprimanding and being
down on them we see ourselves in the antithesis of these things at least I certainly do
Paul then expresses his care and the care of his colleagues in a rare combination of the role of
a mother and of a father let me finish with another illustration from Charles Simian this is
Charles Simian month so designated by me I just have quoted him a few times Charles Simian
was the vicar of Holy Trinity Church in Cambridge he was the vicar there for 54 years in the first half
of the 19th century and an American bishop twice visited Simian in his old age and he wrote
these words of Simian which I find to be of tremendous challenge this is what he said of Simian as an
old man the sweet affectionate expressions of his face and the welcoming tone of his voice
united with a great softness and childlike simplicity of his manners
instantly made me feel as if I were in the presence of a caring father
and Simian himself preferring rather to command truth and goodness than to castigate error and evil
used to urge and beg of younger clergy who were under his care he would say to them frequently
be gentle among your people as a mother with her family that is a wonderful
standard to set that is a biblical example to follow that is a hard thing to do truth is hard
if it is not softened by love and love is soft if it is not hardened by truth
so if truth and love are the hallmarks of genuine pastoral care
then let us pray together that God would fill all of us concerned with the fullness of his spirit
that we may as time goes by and as we begin to progress and grow in grace and in a knowledge of
Jesus Christ more closely approximate to the pattern and standard of this book and to the current
circumstances in many of our lives you've been listening to a message by Alistair Begg from
Truth For Life and you're welcome to pass this sermon along to others but please don't
charge for it or alter it without written permission from truth for life this content has been
provided to you free of charge by the generous supporters of truth for life for additional
information about how you can support truth for life please visit us online at truthforlife.org
there you'll find free message downloads from Alistair Begg as well as links to our podcast
mobile apps and other resources to help you grow in your Christian faith again the website is truth
for life.org you can also follow us on Facebook and Twitter to stay in touch with truth for life
and Alistair Begg truth for life where the learning is for living
