The following message by Alistair Begg is made available by Truth For Life.
For more information, visit us online at truthforlife.org.
So, to first Thessalonians we turn to three or four verses, which I'm not
fond particularly easy to wrestle with.
I hope that won't become to a parent, but I fear that it may.
Of course, Thessalonians chapter 2 and the small section that is before us here begins
in the 13th verse and goes through to the 16th.
Last time we noted something of Paul's heart and his concern in ministry as we paid attention
to the metaphors which he had employed, which were indicative of his pastoral concerns
for those to whom he was writing.
And if you recall last Sunday evening, as we dealt with this whole matter of truth and
love, you may recall, we said that truth that is not soft and by love can become dreadfully
hard and that love that is not hardened by truth can become dreadfully soft.
And we said that the New Testament brought us to this wonderful holding of these two
principles in tension.
And it was illustrated in Paul's ministry by his compassionate interest in those under
his care dealing with them, as he said, as a father and also as a mother and also as
a herald.
And that picture of being a herald emerged in the 9th verse, which is the word there
for preaching the gospel of God to you, the word Kyrusol.
And it is this picture of a herald which actually underpins, underlies what we now discover
him saying in verse 13 and following.
And we also thank God continually because when you receive the word of God which you heard
from us, you accepted it not as the word of men, but actually as it is the word of God
which is at work in those of you who believe.
And he is refeting there to the ministry that he had been engaging in along with others
of being, as it were, the cryer, the herald in the streets of the town proclaiming the
very word of God.
Now, I have a number of points this evening, all that begin with the Lancer P. And I
will try and get through them properly.
Those of you who were alert towards the end last Sunday evening know that you were more
alert than myself because I reversed my final point, made it my first point all over again.
I could hear myself doing it.
I couldn't understand what I was doing and I just had to bash on but by the time I finished
I realized what I had done and that is that I had convoluted the whole thing.
I do apologize for that.
And for those of you who were trying to take notes, you should by now have worked it out.
And if not, then I'll have to try and work it out for you some other time because I can't
even remember what the three points were at the moment.
You can remember them last Sunday, certainly can't remember them this Sunday, but I do hopefully
we'll be able to address these.
First of all, we're going to notice the process to which he refers.
The process to which he refers, I'm not going to spend a long time on any of these tonight
just to try and move through the text, the process then.
He clearly states the fact that the gospel that he was preaching was the word of God.
And he commends them for recognizing this fact, indicating that their response to this
process, this fact alone, is the occasion of his continual thanksgiving.
And the process can be clearly seen by just underlining a couple of words as you go through.
The two words from us, which you heard from us, then above that of God and then underneath
that in you.
All right?
What you heard from us, he says, was actually the word of God, which is now at work in you.
He's really a study in prepositions.
From us came to you the word of God, which is now he says at work in you.
Leon Morris has a very helpful comment on this as he addresses this in his commentary.
And he says Paul could preach with certainty and power for he had the profound conviction
that what he said was not of man's devising, but in very truth the word of God.
And then he applies it and he says, the Christian church cannot do without this conviction.
To preach interesting little moral essays, can never prove an adequate substitute for
the word which comes from God.
And that, of course, is the process that remains.
Although we are not exercising the ministry of an apostle, the apostles were a unique
group of people upon whom the church was founded under Christ and they are gone on from
there, but the apostles doctrine has been left to us in the Bible, which is the word of God,
and therefore the process should always be the same.
That it is the task of the Bible teacher to come with the word which is of God, which
comes from us and begins to work in us together.
And nothing short of that is what we look for and anticipate.
There are a number of things which are foundational in this process being continually effective.
Two, which are immediately apparent and yet should probably be underscored are these.
Number one, the absolute necessity of an expectant praying congregation.
A congregation that prays for their pastors and prays for those who teach the word of
God will be a better fed congregation than those who do not.
And when a congregation learns to anticipate hearing the word of God from us, which will
it turn in turn be it work in you, then it is a wonderful thing.
And of course, the other side of the coin is that there needs them to be in the place
of proclamation, those who are listening to God who are sensitive to His Spirit may
not be brilliant, probably, in fact, in this case will not be, but they will at least
be making an honest endeavor to wrestle with a text of Scripture and to come prepared
on the Lord's day to bring the word which is of God from us to be at work in you.
And that process, as Leigh and Mark Leigh and Morris says, is absolutely vital because
the Christian church cannot do without this process.
And yet the fact of the matter is that there are many churches without being unkind to any
other fellowships or others, but there are many, many churches where this process never
takes place.
Because there is not an underlying conviction that what we have here is the word of God.
And without the conviction that what we have in our hands is the word of God, then the
pastors will never address it as such and people will never learn to anticipate it as such.
So it's a very happy thing by God's grace to be involved in this process at all.
So that's the process, then.
The word from us was the word of God, which was the word at work in you.
Secondly, notice the product for the process has a product.
And the transforming power of God's word is then seen at work within their lives.
This of course is one of the great tests that we ought to look for in our lives concerning
our reception of the word of God.
James says, don't merely be hearers of the word of God, but be doers also.
And we have our right to anticipate that when we are receiving the word of God faithfully
proclaimed, when we are anticipating it within our lives, that we will actually produce
a product.
And the product is defined for us here.
You accepted it not as the word of men, but as it actually is the word of God, which
is at work in you who believe.
And then he says, and I know this is true for the joining word for you brothers.
First of all, became imitators of God's churches in Judea.
This is what they discovered, the very word of God.
And they looked around and they said, what do we do with the word of God?
And there were some other churches that had been planted before them.
And they perhaps send folks up to see what was going on in Judea and to find out how
they were applying the word of God and to hasten back down and tell them.
This is how the word of God is at work amongst them.
And they were learning from the example of those who had gone a little before them.
That's just simple discipleship.
You do not, you can never lead souls heavenward unless claiming yourself.
You need not be very high up, but you must be claiming.
And the churches in Judea, what are a couple of steps up from the church in Thessalonica.
And so they sent up there, they found out what was going on and they said, fine, that's
what we'll do, we'll imitate their example.
We have no details of it.
When you learn to ski, you try to learn to ski, you feel like such a bumbling fool for
those early weeks.
I speak with great conviction when I came here in 83.
The first invitation I received was to go with the youth group on a ski trip.
She scared me to death because I had only had one horrible debacle in skiing with my wife
since we had been married and she was embarrassed and left me for most of the day.
And one of the girls in the office came in and suggested that I signed up for the plain
dealer ski school.
And I went out on my day off to the plain dealer ski school and humbled myself to the instruction
of these individuals.
And when they let you loose at sometime around 10, 30 or 11 o'clock for the final hour,
I found that the absolute best thing to do was to go up in the lift and just find somebody
who knew what they were doing and just follow right down behind them and try and turn when
they turn and try and bend when they bend and try and do what they do.
And as long as you find a good example, you probably won't go too far wrong.
And so the word of God began to work within their lives and its evidence was in their
imitating the churches in Judea.
Pause for a moment and ask yourself, if people came from other churches to imitate
Parkside Church, what would we give them to imitate?
They came up to imitate us.
What would they find as the kind of distinctive hallmarks of our church family?
What are the things they would imitate?
Would be dreadful to think that they learned from us how to be divisive or how to be critical,
how to be disillusioned, how to be complacent.
It would be wonderful to think that they learned from us how to be united, how to be
expectant, how to be rejoicing, how to be progressing.
They became imitators and that was part of the product, but not only were they imitators
as a result of the word taking root in their lives, but they also were sufferers.
For you brothers became imitators of God's churches in Judea which are in Christ Jesus
and he says, you suffered from your own countrymen.
Now if you want the background to this, at your leisure you can go back into the Acts of
the Apostles and if you turn back to Acts chapter 17 and 18, you have this historical
background to what Paul is writing about here.
In Acts chapter 17 and 18 you may recall that Paul's opponents in the preaching of
the gospel were Jewish and they pursued him to Thessalonica and then when he went to
Athens they pursued him to Burya and when he went to Athens they pursued him to Athens
and after his arrival in Corinth and it was in Corinth that he wrote for Thessalonians,
it was Jewish opposition which led him to take the drastic step of turning his ministry
away from the Jews and moving over to the Gentiles.
It is a reminder that in generations not our own and in places removed from us the
issue of the gospel and the impact of it in our life has been to introduce people to
the most manifold suffering and one of the things that we ought to constantly thank God
for is the fact that in all the history of this great nation God has chosen in his
providence to preserve the church in the United States of America from this kind of dreadful
persecution whether he will always choose to stay his hand we cannot say but it ought at
least as we read our Bibles to be our reminder to us that if our brethren in all parts of
the world and in all times in history as a result of the process of the word of God being
received and applied in their lives we're ushered into suffering that we surely ought not
to hold out this for long crazy dream of genuine Christianity producing within us all that
is tranquil and fine and wonderful and peaceful. Well that brings us to the third piece the
word persecution we need to look at this issue of persecution for a moment first of all
a process and then the product and then this issue of persecution halfway through
verse 14 he says you suffered from your own countrymen the same thing those churches suffered
from the Jews and now Paul makes these graphic statements concerning what the Jews have done
and I want you just to follow along with me as I note them this is what he says first of
all he says they killed the Lord Jesus they killed the Lord Jesus now you ought probably just
to turn back to Matthew's gospel for a cross reference here Matthew chapter 27 and verse 25
as you're turning to that let me say this that to say such a thing today would be regarded as
anti-Semitic after all we know that the Romans were involved in the death of Jesus and so to where
all of us in so far it was as it was our sins that nailed him to the tree Paul certainly understood
himself to be involved in the death of Jesus as he refers to it in 1 Timothy 1 13 as he regards
himself as the chief of sinners but despite the fact that the Romans were involved and that Gentiles
were involved and you and I were involved in one degree in this death of Jesus nevertheless Paul
is unequivocal in stating things as he does he says your experience of suffering from your own
countrymen is akin to the sufferings which came upon the churches as a result of the Jews who killed
the Lord Jesus and it is very very clear that the Jewish people as a whole shared the blame
and frankly came out and said so look at the chilling verse 25 of Matthew 27 when Pilate saw verse 24
that he was getting nowhere and trying to get one of these win win situations affected but that
instead an uproar was starting he took water and he washed his hands in front of the crowd he said
I am innocent of this man's blood it is your responsibility he said to them you are the ones who
are stirring this up you are the ones who want him dead we are in the responding mode you are the
initiators now it would have been possible for them to say oh no it's not us it's not just as alone
but look at their response and all the people answered let his blood be on us and on our children
loved ones it is impossible to explain two thousand years of Semitic history without paying attention
to their bold statement in the 25th verse of Matthew 27 and it is in no way provoked by any sense of
anti-Jewish sentiment to say this in clarity what they asked for they got
it is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God the persecution is revealed he
says first of all in that they killed Jesus also they killed the prophets these were their own folks
these were their own chaps the fellows who were proclaiming the work to them and yet nevertheless
they despised them and they killed them also they had no time for anybody who did not tell them
the way they wanted to hear it they wanted to hear news of peace and somebody told them of terror
they would be done with them and in Matthew 23 and in verse 29 we read in one of the woes of Jesus
he says woe to you teachers of the law and Pharisees you hypocrites you build tombs for the prophets
and decorate the graves of the righteous and you say if we had lived in the days of our forefathers
we would not have taken part with them in shedding the blood of the prophets so you testify against
yourselves that you are the descendants of those who murdered the prophets fill up then the
measure of the sin of your forefathers and we don't have time to stay with this tonight but
you see what he's saying he's saying this to them it isn't enough for you your bloody murderous
approach to things cannot be finally absorbed by your killing of these people who have gone before
now go ahead and fill up the measure of your forefathers sin and what he's saying is go ahead
and kill me too and they understood him and says Paul the persecution was revealed in our own
receiving of their response they killed the Lord Jesus and the prophets and also drove us out
we were there trying to bring to them the good news and they drove us out and so he says they
displeased God everyone who rejects Jesus displeases God and there is no matter more significant to
God the Father than the rejection of His Son for your memory said this is my beloved son in
whom I am well pleased this is my beloved son listen to him and as they cried away with him we
would rather have Barabbas in all of their devotion to God they were actually displeasing the God
whom they claim to be worshiping and he says fifthly they are hostile to all men you see this
progression they kill the Lord Jesus they kill the prophets they drove us out they displeased
God and they are hostile to all men the Jewish historian said of them towards all other people
except their fellow Jews they feel only hatred and hostility now how is this hostility
represented well we're told they're in verse 16 their hostility towards the human race extended
to seeking to prevent Paul and others from preaching the gospel to them and so to stop the Gentiles
from being saved they do not want save themselves and they do not want the Gentiles to be in the
receiving end of this gospel they were obstructing the spread of a gospel and Paul acknowledges this
I think his sense as I do that there is material here for deep and profound thought
the process the product the persecution and the pronouncement
verse 16 in the final two sentences in this way they always heap up their sins to the limit
the wrath of God has come upon them at last or the wrath of God is hanging over them at the
last it's an interesting phrase isn't it in light of what Jesus had said to them in Matthew 27
when he called upon them there I beg your pardon back in in Matthew 26 he says to them fill up
the measure of your response and here says Paul they are heaping up their sins to the limit
they're eventually tipping the scales to the point where there is no other way for them to go
and eventually God's patience runs out his patience ran out in the prophets he sent the prophet
Amos to them and the prophets Amos had to say to them again and again if you don't listen now I
can promise you there will be a tomorrow God's patience is running out and so it is that having
heaped up their sins to the limit the wrath of God has come upon them at the last now there is
some question here in the text as to whether this is a statement in the past tense that this judgment
of God has already taken place or is in the present tense is immediately on them now or is yet in
the future tense in one measure it doesn't really matter if the sense is that it has fallen on them
then Paul may be referring to the great famine which took place in Judea between 45 and 47 AD
or he may be referring to a phenomenal massacre of the Jews in the temple precincts in AD 49
and so they would know exactly what he was talking about if however he is speaking of that which
is yet to come it is more than likely that he is anticipating what would come in the destruction of
Jerusalem in AD 70 in either way he wants them to understand that their persecution
was such that his pronouncement upon them would definitely come to pass
now let me see a couple more things here and I have one final word and then we'll be through
as I studied this this week I said to myself my my this is tough stuff and especially coming from a
Jew because remember that Paul was Jewish Paul was fiercely Jewish Paul even after his conversion
was not about to cast aspersions on all that is represented his early heritage he put it in
perspective by saying the fact that I had put store in all of this was ridiculous and now he says
I encounter all things as rubbish for the sake of knowing Christ but he didn't mean that his mom
and dad had taught him rubbish and he didn't mean that his training under Gamaliel had been rubbish
he's saying that in the contrast of the wonder of grace in Jesus all of this is just like wind in the
and when we think of Paul as he writes the the letter of the Romans he writes concerned and compassionate
for his Jewish compatriots he asked the question in Romans three one what advantage then is there
in being a Jew or what value is there in circumcision and we might expect him to say absolutely none
but he doesn't he says much in every way first of all referring to the Jews they have been
entrusted with the very words of God he said it is a wonderful thing to be brought up in this Jewish
heritage for the gospel is first to the Jew and then to the Gentile and so he is not setting that
aside what if some did not have faith will their lack of faith nullify God's faithfulness not at all
let it be true that the word of God be true in every man alive and so he goes on to speak concerning
that when you turn forward to Romans chapter nine and to the opening verses of Romans nine he
pours out his heart with great concern for the nation of Israel he longs for their salvation
look at this verse two of Romans nine I have great sorrow and unseasing anguish in my heart
for I could wish that I myself were cursed and cut off from Christ for the sake of my brothers
those of my own race the people of Israel there's is the adoption of sons there's the divine glory
there's the covenants there's the receiving of the law there's the temple worship and the promises
there's are the patriarchs and from them is traced the human ancestry of Christ who is God
overall forever to be praised he says amen and yet here in 1st Thessalonians he writes concerning
these same people his own race and he says they persecuted us they killed Jesus they killed the
prophets they drove us out they stood in the way of the gospel and by implicating ourselves
we cannot exonerate them that's what he say
and in consequence he says the wrath of God has come upon them even as Jesus warned that it would
you cannot read the gospels without understanding something of this I want just a quote to you one or
two statements of Jesus which make clear that he warned the people concerning these things he says
in verse 43 of Matthew 21 therefore I tell you that the kingdom of God will be taken away from you
and given to a people who will produce its fruit he who falls on this stone will be broken to pieces
but he on whom it falls will be crushed and then verse 45 and when the chief priests and the
Pharisees haired Jesus parables they knew he was talking about them and they looked for a way to
arrest him but they were afraid of the crowd because the people held that he was a prophet
Matthew chapter 23 and verse 38 Jesus laments over Jerusalem Jerusalem Jerusalem you who kill the
prophets and stone those sent to you how often have I longed to gather you to gather your children
together is a handgatherer sir chicks under her wings but you were not willing a great agony of
soul of Jesus over these dear ones and then he says in 38 look your house is left to you
desolate one final reference look chapter 23 and the 28th verse
and as Jesus was led away they see Simon of Sy from Cyrene who was on his way in from the country
and they put the cross of Jesus and him and they made him carry it behind Jesus and a large number
of people followed him including women who mourned and wailed for him and Jesus turned to them and said
daughters of Jerusalem do not weep for me weep for yourselves and for your children what a strange
thing to say do not weep for me weep for yourselves why would they weep for themselves
he was the one that was with the cross he was the one that was about to see the demise he was the
one who would be bloodied and beaten and lost and he goes on and he says for the time will come when
you will say blessed are the barren woman the wombs that never bore and the breasts that never
nursed then they will say to the mountains fallen us into the hills cover us for if men do these
things when the tree is green what will happen when it is dry these great enigmatic statements of
Jesus warning warning warning and now after time as a lapsed Paul explains it in the final
sentence of the 16th verse the wrath of God has come upon them at the last
now let me give you something of a perspective on this in conclusion
and this is just the briefest and most cursory look at a small period of church history
but the fact is loved ones that in the history of the church the church has not been guiltless
when it comes to the issue of anti Judaism and the church has sought to use some of the statements
that we have just referred to tonight as a means of standing with others
in some of the most dreadful treatment of Jewish people
and that's why out of the period of the second world war there were only one or two pastors
who stood to the fore and were prepared eventually as in Bonhoeffer's case to meet their end to say
this is wrong this cannot be countenanced on the basis of God's word but the vast majority of people
as a result either of blinding their eyes and stopping their ears or a horrible misunderstanding
of the Bible were prepared somehow or another to be caught up in the drift and for that there
needs to be some solemn and honest repentance we cannot go to our Jewish neighbors and our friends
without recognizing that some of the blood of their forefathers is on our hands
Christus in the fourth century preaching in Antioch fourth century preached eight virulent
sermons against the Jews he described them as animals he accused them of all kinds of bizarre
and immoral activity and he did so on the basis of a warped understanding of the scriptures
in the middle ages there were all kinds of repressive treatments of the Jews that came out from
statements of the church none more repressive than four regulations from the Lateran council in
1215 AD and as a result of these four regulations the Jewish people were obliged to live in ghettos
and to wear distinctive dress this is not Nazi Germany that is 13th century Christianity
you will live in ghettos they said and you will wear clothes that mark you out so that we might know
who you are during the crusades the church failed to stand against a massive and whole
sale pillaging of Jewish settlements and it is difficult as it is for many of us who have Luther
as one of our heroes to face in 1543 soon before his death and perhaps a little in his doateach
and somewhat disillusioned by the fact that some Jewish evangelism in which he had engaged had
failed dramatically Luther issued a paper entitled the Jews and their lies and in this dreadful
diatribe he cried out against the Jewish people calling for people to set fire to their synagogues
to destroy their homes to confiscate their books and to silence their rabbis that was Martin Luther
now what did I tell you the best of men are men at best
we could sidestep from here and we won't and address the blood that's on the hands
of white people in relationship to slavery also bolstered by a horrendous resting of the scriptures
and when we read our bibles and when we understand the text of scripture and when we wrestle
with this and try somehow or another to get a semblance of normality in it all there's only one
clarification that I can make any attempt at understanding it and it is this and I think it
lightens the guilt at least a little as far as I can understand church history the fathers
and those in the middle ages and the reformers were expressing a sentiment that was anti Judaism
it was not anti-semitic in other words it was a theological conviction
it was not I hope a racial prejudice it was because presumably we must say that the incarnate
son of God must be honored and must be adored and only through him can we come to the father
and therefore the monotheism of Judaism is bereft and therefore has to be counteracted and in
that sense we would have to stand against Judaism as a religious expression when it comes to that
element but sadly loved ones our zeal so often overstrites the boundaries that are established
by the parameters of biblical love and have a funny feeling that some of us in this respect
still have some repenting to do still have some stories to say
still have some bridges to mend
and still have some friendships to make
you're sensible people you think these things out for yourselves that is pretty together
oh Lord our God
we come to these three or four verses tonight
we don't find them easy palatable
and not necessarily cheery
but we know that all scripture is inspired by God and is profitable for doctrine and for
reproof and for correction and for training and righteousness
we want to understand this process and live in it that it may be your word the word of God from
your servants in us we do want the product to be evident in our lives
we do recognize to Lord that there is this
fact of persecution with which we've wrestled that is this pronouncement
concerning your wrath being revealed from heaven and we see something of it
and as we reflect upon the history of the church we get a perspective that is not always
encouraging but it is frankly challenging and so we pray that you will forgive us our sins
some of us still harbor bitterness towards those around us who look differently
we'll live differently who come from a different religious persuasion
we do ask you to forgive us and to change us we pray to at the same time that you will make a
zealous for the gospel recognize thing that the task of evangelism in our world tonight is a
daunting task so much confusion abounds in our schools and universities in the
thoroughfares of our lives it's hard to engage people in fact the task is so daunting it drives
us to our knees bring us to our knees help us to be an army raised up to walk the land
as a result of getting the captains instructions and then being about the captain's business
to this end we commit ourselves to you in Jesus name. Amen.
You've been listening to a message by Alistair Begg from Truth for Life and you're welcome to
pass this sermon along to others but please don't charge for it or alter it without written
permission from Truth for Life this content has been provided to you free of charge by the generous
supporters of Truth for Life for additional information about how you can support Truth for Life
please visit us online at truthforlife.org there you'll find free message downloads from Alistair Begg
as well as links to our podcast mobile apps and other resources to help you grow in your Christian
faith. Again the website is truthforlife.org you can also follow us on Facebook and Twitter
to stay in touch with Truth for Life and Alistair Begg. Truth for Life where the learning is for
