The following message by Alistair Begg is made available by Truth for Life.
For more information, visit us online at truthforlife.org.
Let's take our bibles and turn to 1 Thessalonians and to chapter 2
and to verse 17.
But brothers, when we were torn away from you for a short time,
in person not in thought, out of our intense longing, we made every effort to see you.
For we wanted to come to you, certainly I pauled it again and again,
but Satan stopped us. For what is our hope, our joy,
or the crown in which we will glory in the presence of our Lord Jesus
when he comes? Is it not you, indeed, you are our glory and joy?
Father, we pray that this brief section from this letter
may instruct our minds and fill our hearts
and change our lives. Only you can do this, and so together we look to you
in Jesus' name. Amen.
Paul and Silas and Timothy had enemies. We've noted that
the enemies had clearly been suggesting certain things
about the actions of this trio in Thessalonica
and not only about their actions, but also clearly about their absence.
And it would appear that they were suggesting
that not only had Paul and Silas and Timothy been doing things
which they shouldn't have been doing, which Paul has responded to
in the opening verses of the chapter, but also suggesting that the fact that Paul and
Silas and Timothy were no longer present in Thessalonica
was also because of malevolence. Their insinuations would appear to be
that the Thessalonian believers had been abandoned
and that their spiritual parents, namely these folks, especially Paul,
had been too frightened to come back and see them.
And the insinuations deep into the lives of these people were such
that Paul felt it important to address this
as he writes to these Thessalonian believers.
And in verse 17, through here, actually for a fair section into chapter 3,
he rebutts his critics. And in doing so, particularly in these four verses
tonight, he provides us with a wonderful illustration
of genuine affection. These are some of the most
heartwarming few verses that you can find in all of Holy
Scripture in terms of a pastor's care
for those who are his spiritual children. And it is clear that Paul was not only
committed to the Word of God, but he was equally committed
to the people of God. And the pattern of his pastoral care
clearly in his mind is the best of parental care.
And that is why he has been using these pictures of children and of being a
mother and a father to them. Says John Stott,
he felt and acted towards them as if they were his own children,
which indeed they were, since he had introduced them to Christ.
Chrysostom, whom we mentioned last time, about 400 AD,
commenting on Paul's affection for the Thessalonians as he reads this section of the
New Testament. Chrysostom in somewhat prosaic and yet moving language says,
of what fiery warmth is this, never could either mother or father
yet, if they even met together and co-mingled their love,
have shown their own affection to be equivalent
to that of Paul. Allow your eyes to scan again
these few verses that we have read in this wonderful illustration
of genuine affection. And then note with me the source,
the force, and the course of this affection. First of all, the source.
Wherein lies the foundation for this kind of relationship.
Well, the key to it is in one word. And the word there is brothers. He might equally well have
said brothers and sisters. It's as kind of generic statement concerning the
nature of the relationship with one another.
And it teaches us concerning the nature of genuine Christian faith.
If you turn into his second letter and his second chapter and the 13th verse,
you will find that he uses the same word with an appending phrase to it.
But we ought always to thank God for you. He says, brothers,
loved by God, they are the loved ones, they are loved by God.
Why? Well, because from the beginning God chose you to be saved
through the sanctifying work of the Spirit and through belief in the truth.
He called you to this through our gospel that you might share in the glory of our
Lord Jesus Christ. So then, and here comes the term of affection,
brothers or brothers and sisters, stand firm and hold to the teachings we
passed on to you, whether by word of mouth or by letter.
What is the source of affection that exists between
Paulus, he writes to this group and the group with he and Silas and Timothy
and indeed the group with each other, it is grounded in these great truths of the gospel
that these individuals had been chosen by God, that they had been called to faith
through the preaching of the gospel which Paul had been privileged to do.
And the love of God for them extended back into eternity and forward into eternity.
When he writes to the Roman Christians in that great triumphant chapter,
chapter 8, he says of them in verse 28 and we know that in all things
God works for the good of those who love him, who have been called according to his purpose.
For those God for new, he also predestined to be conformed to the likeness of his son,
that he might be the first born among many brothers and those he predestined, he also called
and those he called he also justified and those he justified, he also glorified.
In the Ephesian letter he says in love he predestined us to be adopted as his sons
through Jesus Christ in accordance with his pleasure and his will.
Now we take time on this simple little word to note the source of this affection
so that we might recognize that genuine affection within the body of Christ
is not something superficial, it is not a shared interest in a certain kind of worship,
it is not an interest in religious affairs that attaches us, it is not a matter of a concern for
the social well-being of our society. No affection within the body of Christ is not superficial,
it is substantial because it unites those who were once faced with a dreadful predicament
of their lostness. As we saw this morning from Ephesians 2, we were outside of Christ by nature
and lost and dead and unable to remedy our circumstances. We were without God and without
hope in the world, but now in Christ Jesus we who were once far away have been brought near
through the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now this means a lot of things but it definitely
means this, there is no place for pride and one upmanship in the affection in the body of Christ
for the ground is flat at the foot of the cross. All the issues that disunite people in various
clubs and societies are to have no basis in the family of God, I'm not saying they have no basis,
I'm saying they are to have no basis. The issues of intellect or absence of the same,
the issues of substance and financial provision or its absence, the matters of race and prior
affections and concerns are all neutralized when the family of God begins to understand the wonder
of the Him that we have just sung, recognizing that all of us shared the same predicament
and all of us have been redeemed by the same precious blood. We're all adopted children tonight.
We all look around on one another in the passing of this cup and in the taking of this bread
and there are none of us here by certain special circumstances. None of us here with a special
avenue of access that another has not enjoyed nor come by. We have all come by the same route.
We have all come to the same place. We are in genuine terms, brothers and sisters in Jesus Christ.
This came home to me this week in the course of the events of the week. At one point I was
with a friend and in the routine of fiddling with some things and objective bystander observing our
interaction with one another. I looked down on us both and said and I take it that the two of you
are brothers and we were about to explain no and then we just said yes in a very real manner of
speaking that is true and you know it warm my heart because that was true and that is true.
This is the basis of genuine affection.
Adopted, justified, redeemed, ransomed, healed, restored, forgiven, who like the
His praise should sing. And tonight when we gather around this table
let us be done with a stony heart. Let us be done with a proud and arrogant spirit.
Let us better leave the elements alone and repent of our sin.
Then eat and drink judgment to ourselves.
Not have I gotten says the hymn writer but what I received. Grace hath bestowed it when I had
believed bolsting excluded and pride I abase. I am only a sinner saved by grace.
Oh there is a lot in that we word brothers and illustration of genuine affection.
It's source. What then of its force? Brothers when we were torn away from you for a short time
the people were suggesting that they ran away or they were staying away no says Paul we would never
be away from you. Indeed we are away from you physically as a result of being wrenched away from
you but we're never been away from you in thought. You're never out of our minds. We're always
thinking of you day in and day out. There's never a day passes that I do not think of you he says.
You understand that those of you who are separated by a long distance from your loved ones don't
you know that? There is never a day in eleven and a half years that I have not brought to recollection
my father my sisters and my loved ones. There has never been a day passed and if that is true
of natural physical affection as we can understand it then says this is the great wonder of redemption.
This is the great wonder of what it means to be placed in the family of God. He said for us to be
away from you we would have to be torn away from you. We left with great reluctance. The word which
is used here is a sort of one of these stuck together Greek words a porphanetsomai and in the middle
of that you get orphan a porphanetsomai that's where we get our word orphan from. It speaks not only
of those who have been deprived of their parents but in Greek parlance it spoke of parents who had
been deprived of their children and Paul says this is how I feel. I feel as though I've been deprived
of my children the way in which we were torn apart was forcible and it was painful. It has
involved physical separation. Says Philip since we have been physically separated from you my brothers
though never for a moment separated in our hearts. You know it takes being apparent to understand
this doesn't it? Children can never understand this. I never understood this. I'm not sure I fully
understand it now. I think there are things that yet await me that will make it clearer than I
understand it in physical terms today but I get a glimpse of it. If I may share with you a personal
illustration of this never did this come home clearer to me in terms of the nature of parental
affection for children than on the day that Susan and I left the United States after our wedding
in Honeymoon and got on a ship in the docks in New York to sail for London and we were accompanied
there by her parents and it was as many of you have known in those times of impending departure
very awkward and the small talk was painful and we were of course leading up to that inevitable
moment when we would have to turn and hug them and say goodbye and walk up the gang plank and be gone.
It didn't help her father that we were flying on a Russian ship and that when we arrived in
New York it with a hammer and sickle were flying from the flagstaff for true blue American that
was a little hard to take now that I found it easy but it was cheap you know
and I wanted Sue to start off correctly and so we went on a Russian ship
and we were full we understood it was painful to part we thought we understood what it was like
we wept we left we went out past the statue of liberty and out into the Atlantic Ocean and gone
a few hours and we were over it and now the new world and the new life for the old world and the
new life but a year and a half later when we came back to the states for our first visit we sat
down and watched the movies that my father-in-law had shot of that day of departure and as we sat
and watched these films there came a point in the movie where it just went to pot where it was
all jumbled and went all over the place and the camera moved and I was about to say what
in the world were you doing there and mercifully I stopped myself because I realized he'd had the
camera on his shoulder and as he began to weep at the party he could no longer keep it in focus
that is exactly just a microcosm of what Paul is saying here I've listened again and again to
parents tell me about their first child going to college it makes me weep even thinking about them
telling me about it it makes me cry when they tell me about it and it could crucify me thinking
about it in relationship to my own children well says Paul our affection is way deeper than that
missing them dreadfully profoundly anxious on their account longing to know that they're going
on look at his language out of our intense longing he says and intense longing we made every
effort to see you verse 18 we wanted to come to you I certainly did he says again and again I
wanted to come to you when will I see you again he must have been singing when will our hearts
beat together now the reason for the absence we're told is the activity of the evil one
Satan stopped us 18 he was about the business of putting obstacles in their path just what this
involves we don't know you read the commentaries and they have four or five suggestions for you
where they got them from is interesting but certainly not from First Thessalonians too again I found
John Stark to be so helpful will he said since we lack this information it is better for us to confess
our ignorance than to express an unwarranted confidence the details will get in heaven but for now
we realize that Satan was involved in this well says somebody does that suggest for a moment
that Satan somehow or another was stronger than God no God still retains supreme authority in
even the activities of the evil one as the book of Job makes clear God remains supreme and all
of his overruling he overrules all evil for good and even in the prevention which was a real
prevention here God's hidden plan was never once thwarted
this display of genuine affection has its source in the grace of God
has a force that just possesates from these verses and runs a course which looks forward
into heaven look at verse 19 for what is our hope our joy or the crown in which we will glory in
the presence of the Lord Jesus when he comes isn't it you indeed you are our glory and our joy
he anticipates the return of Jesus Christ and anticipating the course of events he affirms the fact
that when he thinks of these dear ones who have been brought to Christ under the ministry that God
has given him that they represent his hope insofar as he anticipates the spirit of God bringing them
to maturity they are his joy as he is able to observe the evident genuineness of their faith
and they are the basis of his exaltation symbolized here in this crown as he anticipates
on the day of the Lord pointing to such converts as these and being able to reveal them as the fruit
of his service this is interestingly not any kind of random phrase on Paul's part
he mentioned this idea in his letters with frequency in Philippians 2 he speaks of the Philippians
and he says as you hold out the word of life in order that I may boast on the day of Christ that
I did not run in vain when I stand before the Lord he says and I review my life and the ministry
that God has given me your presence will reveal the fact that I did not labor in vain Philippians 4
1 my brothers whom I long for he says my joy in my crown first Corinthians 9 he says to them
you are the seal of my apostleship in the Lord but says somebody I thought I read in Galatians
that Paul had said that he would never boast save in the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ
and that's exactly right well then if he would never boast in the anything other than the cross
of the Lord Jesus Christ does it not seem that he's skirting a little with things by suggesting
that these dear ones who have come to faith under his ministry are something of a basis at least
for his encouragement well think it out what he's declaring is simply this that his joy in this
world and his glory in the next world is tied up with the salvation of the Thessalonians whom Christ
through Paul's ministry has signally performed
as an athlete anticipates a crown for victory Paul looks forward to seeing them in eternity
and he says after Jesus himself you my dear ones are the only prize worth having you see that is why
we labored hard in first Corinthians 9 to notice this little driving phrase in Paul's life
though I am free and belong to no man I make myself a slave to everyone to win as many as possible
tomorrow morning loved ones as you go back into the routine of your life here is your objective
as a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ to see unbelieving people become committed followers of Jesus
Christ so that on the day of his return you may be able to look across and see those who are your glory
and your joy some of you as mothers had it by all the affairs of life and busy by the routine
of all of those baskets of laundry and various other things I'm sure sometimes feel the pressure
that comes from all kinds of sources in a word like this but I do say to you again
if you're able to look across at your children in heaven and see them there around the throne
then should there be no others let them be your glory and your joy
do you sense this supernatural affection in these verses
Christ is still again in a great overflowing statement of affection for those who were in his
care the kind of affection that I hope to learn to have if I grow to be gray and old or
he says there is nothing I love more than you writing to his church not even light itself I would
gladly have my eyes put out 10,000 times over if it were possible by this means to convert your
souls so much as your salvation dearer to me than light itself this one thing is the burden of my
prayers that I long for your advancement but that in which I strive with all is this that I love
you that I am wrapped up in you that you are my all father mother brethren children
and Ross Cousin hearing of the statements of the godly Samuel Rutherford as he lay close to
the end of his life and in prison in the town of Aberdeen took some of those statements which came
from his prison cell and as he nears the end of his life she pictures him thinking of the congregation
which he will now no longer ever serve again far the events of his life have torn him away from
them and as he stands as it were prior to death and on the very verge of heaven she pictures him
looking back to this little congregation on the sole way forth and here comes this great display
of affection I've quoted it to you before but it's so wonderful it's worthy of repetition and she
gives him the words fair and with that's the location on the sole way to meet our still art dear
even from the verge of heaven I drop for the atier and if one soul from and with meets me at God's
right hand my heaven will be two heavens in a manual's land
what is the source of this genuine affection it is found in the very blood of the Lord Jesus Christ
what is the force of such affection it is the power of the Holy Spirit quickening and renewing
and changing what is the course of this affection it is a course that began in eternity walks through time
and looks forward to the day when we will be gathered around God's throne
not all of us will have the privilege of seeing many come to Christ
but all of us may ask of God the opportunity to reproduce ourselves just once
and if to that end you are prepared to commit yourself in daily prayer then we can with justification
anticipate that those whom we welcome with regularity around this table will not be those who have
relocated but those who have been brought to living faith in Jesus Christ through your witness and
through mine and so if one soul from Cleveland should meet me at God's right hand then our heaven
will be two heavens in a manual's land that is bowed together in prayer
Father prepare our hearts as we listen to these wonderful truths being sung and as we gather now
around your table the great reminder of the source and force and course of this kind of affection
you have been listening to a message by Alistair Begg from truth for life and you are welcome to pass
this sermon along to others but please don't charge for it or alter it without written permission
from truth for life this content has been provided to you free of charge by the generous supporters
of truth for life for additional information about how you can support truth for life please visit
us online at truthforlife.org there you'll find free message downloads from Alistair Begg as well
as links to our podcast mobile apps and other resources to help you grow in your Christian faith
again the website is truthforlife.org you can also follow us on Facebook and Twitter to stay in touch
with truth for life and Alistair Begg truth for life where the learning is for living
