The following message by Alistair Begg is made available by Truth for Life.
For more information, visit us online at truthforlife.org.
Can I invite you to take your bibles and turn with me to 1 Thessalonians chapter 5?
1 Thessalonians 5 and verse 12.
Now we ask you, brothers, to respect those who work hard among you,
who are over you in the Lord, and who admonish you.
Hold them in the highest regard in love because of their work.
Live in peace with each other, and we urge you, brothers,
warn those who are idle, encourage the timid, help the weak, be patient with everyone.
Make sure that nobody pays back wrong for wrong, but always try to be kind to each other and to everyone else.
Be joyful always, pre-continually, give thanks in all circumstances for this is God's will for you in Christ Jesus.
Do not put out the Spirit's fire, do not treat prophecies with contempt.
Test everything, hold on to the good, avoid every kind of evil. Amen.
And if you keep your bibles open there on your laps, we will come to these verses before us,
but let us turn for a moment again to the Lord in prayer and ask for his help as we seek to study his word.
Our God and our Father, we thank you for giving to us the Bible,
and we thank you for giving to us the faculty of our minds that we would be able to think.
And we pray that you will take your word and bring it to bear upon our minds that we may be transformed
as a result of having our minds renewed.
We cannot either speak or listen in the way that we ought unless you come to help us.
And so we earnestly ask for your help in order that we may believe and obey and live out
the truth which is before us here.
For we ask these things in Jesus' name, amen.
The 13th verse of First Thessalonians 5 concludes with one sentence.
You can see it there, live in peace with each other,
or in the paraphrase of the living Bible, remember no quarreling among yourselves.
Every parent has a certain standard vocabulary.
It is one of the strange things about parenting that we find words and phrases coming out of our lips
that we attribute only to our own parents.
And then somewhere along the journey of life, we hear ourselves talking,
we're saying the exact things that we used to hear our parents say.
And one of those standard phrases, at least frankly in my family and yours may have been somewhat better than mine,
is this phrase, remember no quarreling among yourselves.
It was most frequently used on car trips.
We used to have a little beginning session.
My father would sit us down and have a conversation about where we were going and how long it would take and when we would get there.
And this was a happy time and everything was packed up and this is wonderful and the Lord's been good to us
and we can have this vacation together.
And remember he said, you're in the back seat, it's going to be a long way and no quarreling among yourselves.
You went down the end of your street, he turned at the first traffic light, you went a little further down the road,
and he turned round to say, first time he said just remember, and that was remember no quarreling among yourselves.
And then there proceeds to be the restatement of this phrase, followed by some of the most outlandish thrashing around with one hand.
Actually it was the left hand in my father's case because a wheel was on the right.
But he used to grab for knees and everything and put our whole family in jeopardy as a result of the fact that as kids we flat out refused to obey the simple instruction.
Live at peace among yourselves.
Now the reason it is such an immediate ring to it and an immediate response by you to it is because you can all identify with it.
And as we saw last time Paul in his letters continually moves from the experience within a nuclear family to the encounters that take place within God's family.
Indeed Paul and right into the Thessalonians has used this picture in a particularly powerful way.
In chapter 2 and in verse 7 he describes his activities with these individuals in terms of the gentleness of a mother with her tiny children.
And he says, I was concerned for you the way a mother is concerned for her wee ones.
He gets to verse 11 and he says, I actually wanted to exercise oversight and direction over you in the same way that a dad does with his family.
And so it is no stretch at all to say that this whole familial picture is uppermost in the mind of the Apostle as he calls his readers and as he calls this church which he loves so much
to an experience of peaceful living.
It would be one thing if Paul only addressed the Thessalonians in this way.
Indeed if that were the case we might assume that the Thessalonians had some unique and peculiar problem.
That they were especially unruly group and that they were in need of this reminder about quarreling.
But in point of fact not only is that not the case in relation to Thessalonians because they were being encouraged just to keep up the good work that they were doing.
But when you read the rest of the Pauline letters you find he's saying the same thing in every place.
Now the reason a person is going to say the same thing in every place is either because he get nothing else to say you know it's like one sermon and he breaches it everywhere he goes.
Or he knows that no matter where he goes this is not only a recurring emphasis but it is a necessary emphasis.
So let me just give you one or two verses for your own follow-up later Romans 12 and verse 18.
To the Roman church he says if it is possible as far as it depends on you live at peace with everyone.
You may not want to turn to these you may just want to make a note of the references.
Romans 14, 19. Let us therefore make every effort to do what leads to peace.
Tukerinthians 13, 11. Aim for perfection and be of one mind and live in peace.
To the Ephesians make every effort to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace.
To the Colossians 3, 15. Let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts since as members of one body you were called to peace.
Discord within a family is not impossible. It's just incongruous.
And that's what a mother of dad always says you know your brothers and sisters he shouldn't be treating one another in this way.
It doesn't make sense as your brother. Stop punching him on the nose as your sister.
Don't do that with her hair. You belong to the same family.
It's not impossible to live in disunity. It's just incongruous and the same thing is true when you begin
to join in with the experience of a fellowship of a church body wherever it might be.
You discover that it is incongruous if the people who claim to have the same God as their father
cannot live in harmony and unity with one another.
And so it's important that we realize that when we think in these terms we are in Christ parts of the
one body. None of us is more significant than the other. Indeed those of us who are tempted to believe
that we're more significant because we're more seen than some of the other parts are but up short when
we read Paul's metaphor in 1 Corinthians 12 and he says the bits that you can't see are more
important than the bits that you can't see. And of course that's true. The renal function of
our bodies is vitally important but it's not in public display mercifully and so we could go through
various other aspects. We are not only members of the same body but we have been indwelt by the same
spirit and we've been all called to the same glorious feature. We have that to look forward to
which we share and it is this he says which is the basis of our unity and the basis of our harmony.
Now the fact that we all of the same accent, now the fact that we all come from the same
background, not because of the fact that we all like the same songs, not because we all have
the same interests, not because we all have the same gifts because we don't, not because we all
have the same color of face which we don't, not because we all come from the same socioeconomic
background. But the reason that the church is distinctive as the church is because we have the
same Father, we're entwelt by the same Spirit, we're members of the same body, and we're looking
forward to the same future. So those are the things that make us what we are. Those are the things
that are supposed to make the church the church. And that's why I said to you many Sundays ago,
it is one of the most exciting things for me to see the increased variegation of our congregation,
to stand and look out the window and see people coming down the aisles towards our church here
wearing sari's and coming out of the Asian community. Let's say this is fabulous because
someone comes along and says, what are these people doing here? They don't dress the same way,
they don't come from the same background. Why is it that you would all be together like this? Answer
because we are made members of the one body. We haven't Christ the same Lord and Savior. We've
been entwelt by the same Spirit. We've been given the same privileges and we're looking forward to
the same future. The truth is that we're all a funny group as well. We're very different.
There are many things that are variegated about us. We're like a big box of chocolates really.
If you like a big box of chocolates, my favorite at home was made by a company called Terries.
Terries all gold came in a golden box. You sometimes got it as a gift from my grandmother, at least
my mother did. I sequestered it and I wanted to test most of it for my mother. I was concerned
about her cholesterol and I used to work my way through a half a pound of chocolates. I knew these
chocolates like I'd invented them. I could tell by the shape on the top and I could tell by a
slight poke with a finger just exactly what we're dealing with. There were soft centers,
there were hard centers, there were toffee centers, there were nuts, nuts covered in chocolate.
And when you take the body of Christ as we've got, you've got soft centers, hard centers and nuts
nuts covered in chocolate. That's what we're dealing with. It's a great liberation to realize that
that we're not trying to create automatons. We're not trying to make some great homogeneous
mass of individuals. We don't have to do that. We're not supposed to believe that. We don't proclaim
that. It isn't that. It never was and it never will be. Indeed, it is the very variegated nature of
the body of Christ. Here, as in any other place, united in the harmony of peace, which makes the
watching world scratch its head and say, I have to explain this somehow. So the wonder of our
unity and diversity is a plus. It's not a minus. It is because we belong to one another
that we are supposed to behave this way with one another. Our peace has come about as a result of
the fact that the Lord Jesus has purchased it with his blood. Colossians 1, verse 20, for God was
pleased to have all his fullness dwell in him and through him to reconcile to himself all things,
whether things on earth or things in heaven, by making peace through his blood shed on the cross.
So the peace that is enjoyed by the family of faith is a very costly peace. It was secured on the
basis of the shedding of blood. One gave his life that God's people might enjoy this kind of unity.
And that's why Paul, when he writes in Romans 5, he says, therefore being justified by faith,
we have peace with God. And it is peace with God, which allows us to experience the peace of God
in Philippians 4, guarding and keeping our hearts and minds, and which in turn then allows us to
experience the dimension of peace with one another. You see, just the clamorings after peace,
just to talk about peace does not bring about peace. Bumper stickers that say things like
believe peace or experience peace. There are some strange things I can't remember them exactly,
but the notion is if you just sort of think about it, it will happen. It won't happen.
Every peaceful solution between warring parties has usually involved the spilling of blood.
And the peace which has been brought about between a holy God and sinful man was also secured as a
result of the spilling of blood. And so when I realized that this peace was purchased at such a
great cost, I understand why it is that Peter says in 1 Peter 3 11, I want you, he says, to pursue
peace, pursue it in the way that hounds, beagle dogs, would chase after a fox in the way in which a
large horse carrying a rider would pursue its quarry. That is the picture of pursuit. He says,
remember the peace has been purchased, remember the peace is to be pursued, and remember this peace
is to be practiced. You see peace, theoretical peace, peace in a vacuum, peace in a box is one thing,
but as soon as you introduce people, that's when the issue comes. And the practice of peace is
described for us here in the verse that is in front of us. Live at peace with one another.
The effectiveness of a church is directly related to its people obeying this sentence.
FF Bruce, the Scottish Theologian says it will make for the effect of life and witness of the
church and for peaceful relations among its members if its leaders are recognized and honored
and their directions are followed. That takes us back to last week. What does it mean to live in
peace, Paul? Well, it means you better understand the nature of leadership. You better be submitting
to the score and you better be listening and obeying the conductor. The way in which a family
may live at peace, brothers and sisters can only live in peace as they live in submission to the
God ordained structure of authority, the mom and the dad. It is impossible to have harmony within
the home as soon as that vertical dimension is snapped. And that's why so much chaos reigns
because leaders won't lead and followers won't follow. And the same is true in the church. It is
impossible to have horizontal harmony if there is not that direct understanding of what it means
to submit to the God ordained structure of leadership. That was last week. The signpost points
back to the issue of leadership and then it points forward to the verses that are in front of us
now. Live in peace with one another and our instruction to this end says Philip is that you
would do these things. Now what Paul does is he gives practical application to the concept. He addresses
three specific instances and he provides three general statements. Let me tell you what they are
and that is generally the direction in which we're going and we won't get all the way through the
journey so you can relax. Specifically he says if you're going to live in peace you're going to
have to deal with the idol, the timid and the weak. These are the three specific instances
and the three general factors you're going to have to reckon on. Number one you're going to have
to practice patience. Number two in verse 15 you're going to have to renounce your desire for
retaliation and thirdly you're going to have to cultivate kindness. How does a church family
live together in peace? It practices patience. It renounces the desire for retaliation and it
cultivates kindness. Okay those are the general themes. How about their practical and specific
application? Well he gives to us these three areas and he explains that dealing with the matters
is always dealing with a face. You know church would be real easy if it weren't for the people.
Right? I mean you'd be all the injunctions of the New Testament until you start putting people
there. Soon as you put people there you realize we've got a problem because the idol and the
anxious and the weak and they are present we only need to look in the mirror to see them
to deal with these people will involve facing questions which are difficult and demanding.
It will involve dealing with people who are often disappointed and in turn disappointing people
and it also involves dealing with folks who are frequently rude and often argumentative.
I also just the facts. Now if your family didn't have any of that in it then you're going to have
a hard time understanding this but I know that my mom and dad reckoned on the fact that they had
three individuals who confronted them with disappointment, argument, rudeness, idleness, weakness
and timidity. That was the hand they got played. That was the challenge of leadership and they're
going to have to get on with it and indeed within a family itself it looks around and it recognizes
all these characteristics. So what are we going to do with it? Well look at this very very carefully.
Who is Paul addressing here? To whom is he giving this instruction? Notice verse 12.
Now we ask you brethren said last time that he might equally have said now we ask you brothers
and sisters. Peter himself uses a word which encapsulates both the masculine and the feminine and when
you read your Bible in most of the occasions where you read brothers it might equally say brothers
and sisters it might say family not in every case but in many cases. He says it in verse 12 this is
what we want you to do and then in verse 14 he says the same thing. How are these needy people to
be cared for? The answer is by the effective ministry of one another. Not as a result of a small
group of experts and on this understand me we have said all that we've said on the strength of
verses 12 and 13. This is not about leadership trying to abrogate his responsibilities and press
the issue somewhere else. It's simply unfolding the text of Scripture. Last time we labor hard to
say there is a unique responsibility which attaches to leadership and that responsibility must be
assumed and those limitations must be accepted. Given that notice though that the urging of the
idol the encouraging of the timid and the help of the weak comes from the people along the rows
and does not come as a result of a top down experience. In other words when I see an idle person
in need of warning a timid person in need of encouragement and a weak person in need of help my
instinctive reaction should not be to get on the phone and look for a pastor to do one of those
three things. Why? To save the pastor? No. To obey the Bible. Because the instruction and the
injunction is given to me and the existence of pastors, ministers, elders does not relieve the
membership of the body of their responsibilities to care for one another. And they say to you
straightforwardly the support, encouragement and admonition of the children within the Christian
family is the responsibility of the whole congregation. That's what Ephesians 4 is all about. God gave
his gifts to the church, pastor teachers who could edify the saints, Eucodemia, build them up
so that they could do the works of ministry. What works of ministry? These kind of works of ministry.
Now let's then unpack them one at a time. The idol are to be warned. Who are these idle people?
Well one of the pictures in the word idle here conveys the idea of playing truant. Truant is a
kind of old fashioned word and it's school growing up in Glasgow. There used to be a truant officer.
In other words somebody who phoned up if you didn't show up. They phoned your mother up to say
where is George, where is William, where is Mary? And the mother usually said at school and the
truant officer says boy do I have news for you. Because the fact of the matter was the individual
had decided that school was not in their program for that day and they had headed off fishing or
or some other equally attractive in some other equally attractive pursuit. And so the truant officer
had the responsibility of chasing the person down and giving them a word of warning. Hey buddy
you may think it's a good idea to go fishing three days out of the week but I want to tell you
you've got exams coming up and if you keep going fishing when your exam comes up you're in deep
trouble. I want to give you a word of warning. But the far better word of warning didn't come from
the truant officer. The far better word of warning came from one of your friends. One of the
guys are the girls that sat at the next desk that you knew really liked you, really cared for you
was really with you and they got you a side behind the shed and they said you know what?
You are really going to mess this up. If you keep skipping you will fail and I don't want you to
fail because I love you and you're my bud and I care about you and I miss you when you're not there
but I'm warning you keep this up you're in deep trouble. Now that's the spirit of it in the warning
of the idol. It's not somebody some big six foot five character with a huge big stick going around
poking people I've come to give you a word of warning like that. It's not that it is the care
of one another exercising warning. Now the fact of the matter is that some of the people were idol
specifically idol in relationship to the notion of the return of Jesus Christ. Paul has addressed
this in verse 13 of chapter four. Some of the people were so sure that Jesus was coming back soon
that they decided to fold it up. They basically retired quit shut their business down,
got their family and went and sat in a little place on a hillside waiting for Jesus to come.
Now we might admire their enthusiasm we may even wonder at the accuracy of their understanding
of the scriptures but after a few days and definitely after a few weeks we would conclude
these people are just flat out idol and if you think about it in the context of Paul's day if
somebody quit working they would quit having the ability to provide food for their family.
And so what they'd have to do is they'd have to come down the hillside and go to their friends
and say excuse me could you have a little you don't get any spare food because you know I'm
up the hill I'm waiting for Jesus coming back and you know I haven't been going to the office
for a while and you know nothing's coming in and the person would be kind to say yeah sure
you'll give you a little bit of food they have the food take it up kids hey good you know
they have a meal we're waiting for Jesus come back wake up in the morning the kids say where's
the breakfast coming from say well I don't know because I don't have any money we don't have any
food but I'll go back down back down the road try somebody else excuse me now we're a little
stuck for breakfast and so we've gone eventually someone say no there's no more food no more food
I want to give you a word of warning your idol quit that get home get back to work get back
amongst the people of God not necessarily easy to say not necessarily well received but vital
the other picture in this same word is a military picture of a group of soldiers marching
in line and one of the synonyms for this word idol is the word unruly or wild and the picture is
of a platoon of soldiers marching together and one character gets completely out of whack either
by designer default starts to do his own kind of military two step right in the middle of the
whole operation and if you've ever marched in any kind of routine like that you know that you
can have a guy doing that so he has to be called back into line because as soon as he gets at all
to put two or three others around him get going and before you know where you are the whole thing
falls apart so what do you say hey back in step you're goofing the whole thing up
oh sorry and we got to assume the people are not trying to goof it up so the word of warning
is just simply that hey back in line can I ask you this morning do you know anybody that's
out of line do you know anybody that's playing truant do you know anybody who is wandering and
stumbling and tripping and falling and is in danger of bringing other people down right around
side them as they go through the march of the Christian life what were you planning on doing
who were you planning on phoning were you going to send me a letter to take care of it
to one of my colleagues or were you going to go take care of it yourself
because after all I would rather have the word of warning from somebody I knew and I knew well
and hung around me and lived with me then as it were sending a headmaster down from the office
to clear up a problem in classroom six when the body of Christ understands the implication of
this and begins to do it it is a self purifying dimension the interesting thing is that the same
Greek word that is used in verse 12 in relationship to the responsibility of leadership
where it says that the leaders are over you in the Lord and they admonish you
is the same word that he uses in verse 14 and we urge you brothers admonish those who are idle
in other words the exercise of the warning responsibility is not a prerogative of only the elders
it ought not to be passed off simply to the elders but the breadth of the application is perfectly
clear hey everybody make sure that you're watching out for those who are idle Kenneth Taylor's
paraphrase warn those who are wild or lazy secondly the timid are to be encouraged the timid are
to be encouraged we urge you brothers to warn those who are idle and to encourage the timid now
why were they timid well there could be a hundred reasons why they were timid we do know that some
of them were particularly fearful about the issue of death and that finds out an echo in many of
our hearts this morning and some were particularly concerned about those members of their family
who had previously died and they couldn't work out what was going to happen in relationship to
the return of Jesus you will remember and Paulus had to encourage them in relationship to their
fearfulness concerning those who have fallen asleep and what they needed by means of encouragement
was instruction that's why in verse 13 he says brothers we do not want you to be ignorant
and the way to cure ignorance is with information and so in the providing of information
there was a cure for ignorance and there was an antidote to timidity and to fearfulness it's
not enough to say to timid fearful people oh don't be timid oh don't be fearful oh cheer up oh come
on it's not so bad it's okay it's fine and if you're really fearful you say don't give me that
guff you don't even know what I'm thinking don't give me that idle clap trap pleasantries stuff as
you walk past me in the corridor at least wait and wait long enough for me to tell you why I am so
fearful don't worry be happy everything's fine no it's not everything wasn't fine in Thessalonica
everything isn't fine in Cleveland and let's cut through it everything isn't fine in your life
this morning and it isn't fine in mind and there are those things which would crush us with
fearfulness and make us timid and neutralize us and diminish our effectiveness and Paul says
recognize that and make sure that in relationship to one another you are providing what is
necessary to restore and to encourage isn't it interesting that they were to encourage one another
in verse 18 of chapter four with these words with the words in other words you need to know the
truth and once you know the truth for yourself then when somebody is up against it then you can
bring the truth to bear upon their fearfulness you can bring objective truth to their subjective
timidity did you ever think you were going to die you ever had that experience
do you ever convince yourself that you've got an illness
it'll drive you nuts
ill neutralize you so fast you'll stand looking out on your back garden and you can cry in your
kitchen as you look at your grass and realize you've cut your grass for the last time
it's totally irrational you look at your children coming up the driveway and you decide you're
never going to see them again once you make this trip so what are you going to do
you've got symptoms you've done your own diagnosis and you've decided you're on your way out
what do you need you need somebody to take objective truth and bring it to bear upon your subjective
experience a laying all the fears of your subjectivity on the strength of the objectives of
information ahead so for example you've decided that the ongoing problem in your tummy
is there's a result of the fact that you have got massive tumours growing all through your gut
now you're not a doctor and you don't know anything but you just decided that
now you can go to your friend next door and he can tell you know you haven't but why would you
listen to him because he doesn't know anything and his wife she knows less than him so eventually
you've got to go somewhere where somebody will take one of those undosky things they'll drop it
right down your throat make your swallow it they'll shove it right down into your gut and they'll
look all around they'll shine it up on the screen they'll pull it back out they'll sit you back
up on the table once the valium is worn off and they'll tell you flat out there are no tumours in
your stomach and that objective truth snaps unless you've totally lost your marbles
snaps the subjective fearfulness now there are many many people in the body of Christ
who are virtually neutralized by timidity and by fearfulness and what they don't need
is a lot of back slapping, song singing, glad handing stuff
they need you to bring the objective truth of God's Word to bear upon their needy souls
that's why we study the Bible not so that we may increase our knowledge but so that our
lives may be changed and so that we might be able to encourage the timid with these words
person says you know I don't think I'm a Christian I don't think that I'm going to go to heaven
I don't think that I'm living well enough I don't think that I'm doing enough I don't think I'm
achieving enough what are you going to tell them you're going to take them here and you're going
to turn the pages over here we have in Jesus this great high priest who paid the price for our sin
who bore our sins in his body on the tree and here we have in Jesus one who is touched with
the feelings of our infirmities here we have one to whom we can go to find mercy and grace to help
us in our time of need encouraging the timid some were concerned about the battles that were going
on outside of them because there were some big battles in Thessalonica and did he mentions them
in verse three of chapter three he says I wanted to strengthen and encourage you in your faith
so that you wouldn't be unsettled by these trials unsettled by the trials it really is a dreadful shame
when people feel somehow or another that the way to
propound the benefits and wonder of Christianity is to suggest somehow that it is to live in a world
that is devoid of trials listen if we were to turn that screen up there into a blackboard
and just give an opportunity to go from section to section never mind from individual to individual
we'll just take section one two three four five six and seven and we'll just put up the immediate
things that are a trial and an unsettling burden to the people in these various sections I tell you
there's not enough room on that screen to go through and it's compounded by the fact that when
we live in an environment that seems to do seems to want from us success that seems to want from us
power that seems to want from us effectiveness that seems to want to tell everybody that everything's
great you know oh yes really encourage oh yes really going on yeah everything's fine
well that's good when it is because that's honesty but when it isn't we don't do anybody any favors
by living the lie and some of us this morning come into this environment we're totally buffeted
by trials totally unsettled by them issues of family life concerns of our future and
amosity from friends in our office concerns about different things and some of these people can
cope with them and they're sitting right around us we gotta hear their cries
that means we gotta shut up a little and I say that to myself not to you
some of us are suffering from ever closed ears as a result of an ever opened mouth
and we couldn't hear somebody saying I need your encouragement
when I was thinking about this during the week my mind went miles away and years ago
back to I was eight years old living in glass school the small house in which we lived at two
bedrooms my mother and father and one and my young one sister at that point before the next one
came along she and I shared a room together I was eight she was three and a half
the back of the garden adjoined the school property and in the school gymnasium on one
evening a week the boys brigade banned used to practice once the bass drum started up
and the incessant frenzied energy of these boys playing their snare drums reached the zenith
it would inevitably wake in morina I was lying there enjoying it fine but for her she would
waken up and her tiny voice would shout across something like are we okay Ali I say yeah we're
fine it's we're fine I don't like that noise it's okay I said we're fine it's just say yeah
she would reach her hand across the cavernous gap in our bedroom you know the whole three
feet between our two beds and reach for me to try and hold on to me and I try and calm her troubled
heart and then there was one point that she just flat out couldn't cope with that's when the bagpipe
started off and I can still to this day in fact I thought I'd phone her up and remind her of this but
I can still to this day see in the darkness her her tiny little eyes looking right into my face in
the bed saying they're gonna get us Ali they're gonna get us will you cuddle me
I grab the little bundle hauler in my bed with me user as a hot water bottle snuggle up to her
and we fall asleep in one another's arms now that's childhood stuff
but we're only kind of big grown-up kids some of us can't face the drum roll
can't stand the snares and once those drones start we're done unless somebody somewhere along the
roll in the group in the flock in the Sunday school class up the street in the church somewhere
could hear the cry above the stress and in the night that takes us to the third picture which is
our final picture this morning the weak are to be helped you see it's hard for the bold and the
blustering to genuinely empathize with these concerns the people who are naturally bold have a
particularly hard time with the fearful and yet they need to learn that such individuals are not
to be condemned there to be consoled there to be encouraged and the weak are to be helped the
picture here for help in the weak is not propping up something that is falling down but it is
holding to yourself something which is falling apart and so he says you know there are weak people
there in the church in Thessalonica some of them are mentally weak some of them are emotionally
weak others are spiritually weak and they need to know that they've got some brothers and sisters
in Christ who are strong who will stick with them who will help them who'll be with them in the
difficult moments a new one forsake them the picture that came to mind as I examined this verb
was the picture of mountain climbing and where every so often you hear of those who were lost in
the mountains in a ferocious snowstorm and when they were finally discovered they were already
suffering from hypothermia and it was imperative that those who had come from the warmth and security
of the rescue would unzip their sleeping bags take the hypothermic individual bring them into
their sleeping bags zip the sleeping bag up around the two of them so that the warmth of the healthy
body may somehow encourage and breathe life into the body that was beginning to fall apart
that's what it means to help the weak give them someone to hang on to give them someone to hold on
to if you like mixing the metaphors is cedar point the person that you've got with you's waist is so
tiny they look as though they're going to come right out through the shoot the bar is not enough
to secure them once you make the first loop it's obvious they're a goner unless they have someone
to whom they may hold on and fasten themselves helping the weak there are in every congregation
those who live with a genuine sense of inadequacy and often with an accompanying sense of inferiority
and they need to be helped to see that they do count that their gifts are valuable
and that they have a necessary contribution to make to the well-being of the body
live in peace with each other he says how should we do that Paul number one make sure you understand
the issue of leadership and number two warn the idol encourage the timid and help the weak
really really straightforward isn't let me give you one picture with which to conclude from
the prophecy of Isaiah chapter 42 so prophetic picture of Jesus the servant of the Lord who is to come
600 years before Christ Isaiah issues this prophecy here is my servant whom I uphold my chosen one
in whom I will delight I will put my spirit on him and he will bring justice to the nations
he will not shout or cry out or raise his voice in the streets notice this wonderful verse a bruised
read he will not break and a smoldering wick he will not snuff out
the picture of the read is either from the world of the kitchen where reads were used in the
preparation of foot or it is from the world of music where reads were fashioned into flutes and
whistles the picture of the wick is obviously from the issue of illumination and the idea of a lamp
if you had a flute as a shepherd on the hills of Judea that became bruised squashed
we bit twisted it just wouldn't make the same tune it just wouldn't have the same tone
and the temptation would be to chuck it if as you were preparing the family meal in the evening
and set in the lamp to illumine the gathering of the family you got more smoke than you got light from
it the temptation would be to chuck it what is the family of God if it is not comprised of reads that are
bruised and flexes that smoke and some of us are painfully aware of our bruises
painfully aware of the fact that we generate more smoke than we generate light
how wonderful it is that Jesus doesn't discard the bruised read but he takes it up in his hands
and by his power he can make beautiful music out of stuff that other people thought we should just
put in a garage sale and he can take the lamp of your life and mine that doesn't really seem to do
much other than splutter and in his hands he can make a shine as lights in a dark place
and he is our example that we might do the same for one another he's idle let's just leave him
no says Jesus warn him oh man she is so timid we are going to have to hang around forever to get
her up to any kind of level to get well why don't we just Jesus says no in Courageur
listen we're putting together a crack force a strong team we'll just leave the week over here
Jesus says no help the week I'm going to tell you something if you want to see Parkside Church
become a force in the community for God do this do this week idle timid people will travel a long journey
to meet the kind of folks who offer encouragement warning and genuine help I can't do it on my best day
I can't do it even my best guys all around me we can't do it we're flawed bruised smoking
we're enough for the fact that Jesus uses this kind of thing we would have long since been discarded
ourselves so let us look around let us play our part and let us be thankful for the privilege let us pray
Father we recognize that not many of us were mighty not many of us were powerful not many of us
were noble rich rather we were poor fearful frail powerless
and because you are who you are you determine that you would seek to turn the world upside down
by confounding the wisdom of the world which says only the powerful the mighty the rich and the
influential will be able to do anything even those of us Lord amongst us whom to whom you have given
great resources don't depend on them because they know where they came from and they know they
are a trust from you even those of us who have boldness recognize that's your gift
Lord we thank you this morning that you don't throw away the bruised read that you don't snuff
out the lamp that smokes but that you keep working with us and help us to understand your word and to
do it that we may be increasingly effective together and before the watching world and we pray for
those who are falling away who are wondering who are playing true and who are out of step
Lord we ask that you would help us to warn them in a spirit of gentleness and care
we pray for the world in which we live in all of its turmoil and fretfulness and care
we pray that you will exalt righteousness and truth and that you might use us
to forge your purposes we who are poor and we who are weak may now declare our riches and our strength
as we look away to the Lord Jesus to whom we give thanks and in whose name we pray Amen
you've been listening to a message by allister beg from truth for life and you're welcome to pass
this sermon along to others but please don't charge for it or alter it without written permission
from truth for life this content has been provided to you free of charge by the generous supporters of
truth for life for additional information about how you can support truth for life please visit us
online at truthforlife.org there you'll find free message downloads from allister beg as well
as links to our podcast mobile apps and other resources to help you grow in your Christian faith
again the website is truthforlife.org you can also follow us on Facebook and Twitter to stay
in touch with truth for life and allister beg truth for life where the learning is for living
