The following message by Alistair Begg is made available by Truth For Life.
For more information, visit us online at truthforlife.org.
Can I invite you to turn with me to First Thessalonians 5 to the passage that we read some
moments ago?
With that refrain in our hearts and the strength of the music and worship that we've enjoyed,
we turn now to these precious moments when we anticipate that God would speak to us
as we have endeavour to speak to Him in song and in prayer, and in order to acknowledge
our dependence upon Him that is take a further moment to seek His help.
Make the book live to me, O Lord, show me thyself within thy word, show me myself,
and show me my Savior, and make the book live to me.
This is our humble cry in Jesus' name, Amen.
There are passages of Scripture which in anticipating them you expect to unfold with rich and
meaningful import. There are others that, as you imagine, going through them, you expect
that you will move with fair rapidity and pass over them lightly.
I must confess that when I began to look at the concluding verses of First Thessalonians
5, beginning from verse 12, I keenly anticipated that it would be a fairly brief journey.
I had never imagined that God would on earth for us such an important and vital wealth
of information as it relates to what it means to live together as a church family, in submission
to leadership, in the discovery of worship, in the expressions of fellowship.
And indeed since about the 12th verse, we have noted that Paul has provided for his readers
approximately 17 vital aspects of practical Christian living, which, if applied, says
Paul, will allow the believers to encourage one another and build each other up.
He has been reminding us of our relationships and at the same time of our responsibilities.
Inherent in the making of this list, in the reading of the list, is the question, how
in the world are we ever to do this?
How am I going to manage it?
And Paul not only provides for us, as we've seen the directives, but he also turns us
to the dynamic.
We noted that in passing in verse 18, in all circumstances, give thanks for this is God's
will for you in Christ Jesus.
And we saw how pivotal that phrase was, reminding ourselves that Paul is not writing simply
to the man or the woman in the street, but he is writing to those who by God's grace
have been incorporated into God's family, have been made to drink of God's spirit, and
have now been enabled to live as God intends.
It is not therefore a long shopping list of activities, which people with a kind of quasi-religious
interest may seek to apply in order to make themselves commendable to God, but rather
it is simply that God has provided for us the enablement necessary for the task.
Now as he wraps this up, he expresses himself in succinct terms with another very necessary
word of encouragement.
And in verse 23, as he prays for those to whom he has written so clearly, he prays that
God himself, the God of peace, will sanctify them through and through.
And we spend today on verses 23 and 24, noticing four things.
First of all, the person, and then the process, and then the product, and then the promise.
First of all, the person to whom Paul refers them, and it's right there at the head of the
verse, to whom is he referring, he is referring to God.
He says to God himself.
Why does he do this?
Because he recognizes that neither the Thessalonians nor any other local church will be able to work
out these principles in their experience, save for the enabling of the gracious work of God.
And so he refers them to the person of God.
But when we use the word person of God, we don't use it in order somehow or another to make
God as ourselves, because he is clearly other than ourselves.
So in what way then could we refer to God as a person?
Well we do it, indeed the Scriptures do it, in order to distinguish between the whole
notion of God as some kind of impersonal power or vague energy, and the biblical revelation
of God as a personal God, as distinct in his character and in his nature.
Very important, as I'll show you in just a moment, that we understand what G-O-D spells.
For many people, the whole notion of God with a small G is whatever they might conceive
him to be.
But when we come to the Bible, it speaks in very clear terms.
It doesn't simply say that God is a person, but it says also that God is plural, that
he is one in three and three in one, father, son, and Holy Spirit, that he is a trinity.
Well, but there's somebody, I read the Bible, and I haven't found the word trinity in the
Bible.
Why would you use that word?
Well, theologians have used the word all through the centuries, because it expresses
clear, biblical teaching.
When we take the Bible and we read it, we discover that as God makes himself known to us,
we find him as father, son, and Holy Spirit.
And we find that God, the triune God, is at work in every aspect of his revelation in
the creation of the world and in the redemption of people.
So that issue of the redemption of men and women, let me just turn you in Ephesians 1.
Because it gives to you an illustration of something that may be helpful in answering
the questions of friends over this Christmas period.
While folks may be willing to talk about God with a small G, you may find yourself engaged
in conversation with them saying, well, I don't really understand this whole idea of
the father, the son, and the Holy Spirit.
And then you can turn them to Ephesians 1 and you can explain to them how when you came
to know God, while you didn't understand all of this theology, yet in looking back,
you can see how God has been in work in your life, in relationship to salvation.
In verse 3 of Ephesians 1, Paul says, praise be to the God and father, notice father of
our Lord Jesus Christ.
Why?
Well, in verse 4, he chose us in him before the creation of the world to be holy and
blameless in his sight.
All that I want you to notice is this, that when it comes to the issue of salvation, God
the father has planned it.
That the activity of the father is in the process of planning.
When you come to what Jesus, the son, has done, you find in verse 7, in him we have redemption
through his blood, the forgiveness of sins in accordance with the riches of God's grace.
In other words, what the father has planned, the son has procured that by his death upon
the cross, Jesus has actualized that which was planned in eternity.
And the place of the Holy Spirit, you will find in verse 13 and you also would include
it in Christ when you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, having believed
you were marked in him with a seal, the promised Holy Spirit.
So God the father planned it, God the son procured it, and God the Spirit applied it.
So why is it that I know that I'm a believer today?
Because the Spirit of God is at work within my heart, reminding me of the provision that
Jesus has made upon the cross and introducing me to the awesome truth that God planned
and purposed this from all of eternity.
I know this with you in passing because it is directly counter to the contemporary view
of God.
While there is a tremendous interest in extraterrestrial activities, while you meet trekkies just about
every where you go in terms of a Star Trek phenomenon, while you find with increasing
interest, people concerned about out of body experiences and the possibility of unidentified
flying objects and the chance that there is something after death.
In the midst of all of that, there is mass confusion concerning who or what God is.
And the 20th century has produced idols of our own imagination.
Some time ago in Life magazine, they did a survey or an article entitled Who Is God?
And what it has to say reveals more about the human imagination than it does about any
kind of biblical revelation.
But in one case, a young high school freshman called Rakesh Shah, I take probably to be
an Indian or a Pakistani, probably of Hindu descent.
His answer was, I have a lot of gods.
I have like a baseball pitching rotation.
I do one one day, second one the next day, just like that.
I have four gods and two goddesses, but I left two of them out because I didn't think
that they were doing their job.
Now, here's a person who being asked about spiritual things responds, yes, I'm interested
in spiritual things, in being asked about gods, yes, I'm very interested in God.
Indeed, let me tell you about how interested I am in God.
I spoke this week and picking up my dry cleaning with a young lady who is a high school
senior.
It is a strange journey that God has to the conversation, but we arrived at the conversation
and she pronounced to me that she could recall only one occasion in 18 years of life when
she had ever been in a church.
She has no notion of church, no notion of God, she has got no concept of what GOD spells.
I said, well, it would be wonderful if you might come and visit with us, perhaps come
to one of our Christmas events, perhaps come to our concert, maybe even bring your mum
and dad.
I said, my mother and father have never once in my life taken me to church.
I went once with my grandmother and that's it.
And it wasn't that she was disinterested.
She was very interested and totally confused.
Now if we possess a similar form of confusion in addressing the God question, then we will
be no help to people on this spiritual continuum.
It is for that reason that we need to labor hard to make sure that when Paul says I am
commanding you to the God of peace that we understand just exactly what we're talking
of.
Jeremiah in his day, and you may like to turn to this, it's a great passage in the Old Testament,
Jeremiah in chapter 10 speaks to the nations of his day and to the people of God in the
midst of the nations.
And these folks had created idols.
Well, you say, well, we don't have idols in the same way, well, they may not be fashioned
in the same way, but we do certainly have idols.
And so the Lord in Jeremiah 10 speaks to the house of Israel and this is what the Lord
says, do not learn the ways of the nations or be terrified by signs in the sky, though
the nations are terrified by them.
For the customs of the peoples are worthless.
They cut a tree out of the forest and a craftsman shapes it with his chisel, be adorned with
silver and gold, they fasten it with hammer and nails so that it will not totter.
Like a scarecrow in a melon patch, their idols cannot speak.
They must be carried because they cannot walk.
Don't fear them.
They can do no harm, nor can they do any good.
No one is like you, O Lord.
You're great and your name is mighty in power.
Now the prophet is distinguishing between the God preoccupation of six centuries BC and
the reality of God as he has made himself known.
And there is intense practicality in this love once because you see the God who is revealed
to us in the Bible is the God of Psalm 139, O Lord, you have searched me and you know me.
You know when I sit down and when I stand up, it was you who put me together intricately
in my mother's womb.
You fashioned me before ever I could conceive of anything, surely since the Samist.
I am fearfully and wonderfully made.
That's the God of biblical revelation.
Now men and women today who have an interest in God, who see him as simply a cosmic principle
or some kind of forceful energy have no accompanying sense of identification with this
personal creator God.
Consequently they live their lives empty, they live their lives lonely, and they live their
lives fearful because they have no knowledge of who they are or why they exist.
But when we come to the God of the Bible, to the God to whom Paul refers here make God
himself the God of peace, then you see it makes a difference to us.
Because then I can say, you know, I'm not just a load of chemicals lost in a solution.
I'm not just a kind of grown up bunch of genetic organizations, but according to what
I'm finding in this book, I am a child of God by creation.
I'm not junk.
I am not disposable.
I am not essentially irrelevant.
I have my own set of fingerprints, and I have my own DNA, all mine, why?
Because God, the God and Father of our Lord, Jesus Christ, determined it would be so.
So you see this theology is not some sort of arm's length activity for a Sunday morning.
Oh, well, so it's God himself, as opposed to God with a small G. It makes every difference
in the world to be able to go to a person and say, you know, you were fashioned after
a master plan.
You may believe yourself to exist in a world of chance without point of identification.
But I want you to know that God, the Father, fashioned you.
And He has in His Son made possible your redemption.
It is to this God, then, that Paul refers to his readers.
He is a person, and he is plural, and he is powerful.
He is eternal and uncreated and infinite.
He is not limited by time or by space.
He derives life and everything from himself, everything in life, everything that is created
runs down, including the Jerusalem battery.
But the Creator does not run down.
God does not run down.
But He is never weary.
He is never tired.
He does not slumber or sleep as the Sama says in 121 Sam.
He is a person.
He is plural.
He is powerful.
And He is peace.
He is the God of peace.
What a wonderful phrase, the God of peace.
He who is wholeness in and of himself.
He is the ultimate expression of peace.
And He is the ultimate only bringer of peace.
That's why you see the angel's song was so dramatic into the darkness of the hillside
surrounding Bethlehem.
Shepherd's going about the business of their day, settling down at the watch fires of
the night, and suddenly there is a heavenly host declaring glory to God in the highest
and on earth peace amongst men upon whom his favor rests.
Speaking into the darkness and confusion, a message that that world needed to hear,
and a message which my world needs to hear, peace, a peace which is enjoyed between
God and man on account of what Jesus has done, having made peace through the blood
of the cross, Colossians 1-20, a peace which guards and keeps the hearts and minds of
believers, even though there is much to unsettle and threaten.
It's hard for me to use illustrations without betraying confidences, but somebody far
removed from this church fellowship called me out of the blue this week, a distant person
to me.
A successful individual, a potentially powerful individual, certainly the kind of person
that everyone would look at and say, you know, I would like to have his job, I would like
to have his income, I would like to have that kind of opportunity.
And he called me, Alistair, could you give me 15 minutes of your time?
I want to talk to you about peace, I have no peace, and for three hours we sat together
and talked about the glory to God in the highest and on earth peace that comes from the God
of peace.
He's not a God of confusion, he's not a God of disorder, he is a God of peace.
And there can be no peace until the grace of God has dealt with sin.
That's why Paul started first Thessalonians in that way.
You may remember right in the first verse, he says, grace and peace to you.
First the grace and then the peace, for it is the grace of God which introduces us to forgiveness
of sins and then in that there is peace.
Secondly, will you notice with me the process, the person to whom he refers them is God
himself, the God of peace, and the process to which he commends them is this process of sanctification.
What does he want God himself to do for them and by defect for us?
He wants God to sanctify us through and through.
Indeed, he says he wants our whole spirit, soul and body to be kept blameless at the coming
of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Boy, that's quite a thought, isn't it?
Let's try and unpack this if we can.
This whole issue of sanctify you through and through.
There's probably not a few of us this morning if we were given a large sheet of paper and
a cup of coffee and a long time would be hard pressed to do very much in extrapolating
anything from sanctify you through and through.
We can maybe write it in a different number of ways or whatever, but if somebody said
I want a thousand words on what this means, we may be just finding ourselves a little
on edge.
So, let me try and unpack it for you.
Indeed, you may be more on edge by the time I try and do this, it may be even more complicated
than when we're starting out.
You may be better with a blank sheet of paper than what you end up with.
I don't know, but let me try my best for you because this is crucial.
This is really crucial.
Sanctification.
It has that kind of sound to it, doesn't it?
Like, yeah, maybe I'll think about that next week.
Because if we could be going to something else, please, a little more practical.
I don't like the sound of this one.
No, sorry.
Here we are.
Verse 23 is where we are sanctifies the word, therefore sanctifies what we're dealing
with.
You see, is that kind of like justification?
You feel good because you pulled that word up.
You knew there was another word that ended in ATI-O-N.
Justification.
You said, I know that one.
You do?
Good.
Because that's very important.
It is vital that we understand justification or we'll never understand sanctification
and we'll never understand the way of the two of them go together.
So sit back, relax, and I'm going to teach you about justification, sanctification,
and the way in which they interact with one another.
If you don't want to learn, this is going to be horribly painful, you'll be longing
for lunch.
If you do want to learn, you'll be a little less painful, but I think you'll learn something.
Justification, first of all.
Romans chapter 5 and verse 1 is the verse that comes most readily to minds, therefore being
justified by faith, we have peace with God.
This is a reminder.
Justification, as we've noted before, is basically a legal term.
It is a declaratory term.
Lawyers understand it, especially those who exercise their prerogatives in a court of
law.
When a judge declares a man or a woman not guilty, he is simply giving them a legal
standing.
True?
He is making a declaration concerning them.
He is not doing anything to their character.
He is ultimately not saying anything about their character, and he is certainly not changing
their character.
What he's saying is, this person stood before us accused, and I am declaring him or
are now not guilty.
Now the reason that this is significant is because when we read the Bible, we discover
that by our very nature, as created, we stand before God, accused.
Now admittedly, that's bad news.
The bad news is that by virtue of the fact that we haven't loved him as we ought, that
we have loved ourselves more than we should, that we have turned our back on his ways,
and even often when we have done good things, we've done them to attract attention to ourselves
or to make ourselves somehow feel better, we stand condemned before God.
Indeed, one of the summary statements on it is in Romans 3.23, all have sinned and fall
short of the glory of God.
So what I discover about myself in reading the Bible is that although I want initially
to feel good about myself, although I want to be told that all is well with me, I face
first of all the bad news that all isn't well, that I am actually condemned before God
on the basis of my unbelief, my passive indifference, and my act of rebellion, and I'm not unique
in that respect, I share it with everybody.
The question then falls for the logical mind.
How then can a sinner be justified by a holy and righteous God?
How do you get out of the position of condemned to justified?
Well, say somebody that's fairly easy, you start going to church, you start doing good
things, you start pulling up your socks, fastening your shoes,
and doing the best you can with a little religious emphasis to it, and all of those things
may prove to be extremely helpful, but they don't answer the question.
How am I to obtain the legal standing of not guilty in the sight of such a judge?
Well the answer is in verse 24 and 25 of Romans chapter 3.
All have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, and how do they get out of the predicament?
Well they are justified freely by His grace through the redemption that came by Christ Jesus.
God presented Him, that is Jesus, as a sacrifice of atonement, through faith in His blood.
Now let me unpack that for you, summarize it.
What Paul is saying here and indeed throughout the whole framework of these chapters in Romans
is simply this.
When Jesus shed His blood upon the cross, He died the death which was our due.
He died in our place and He died on our behalf, and so on the ground of what Jesus has done
on the cross, God can pronounce on the sinner who believes in Jesus the not guilty verdict.
Because Jesus died on the cross, notice carefully, God has not pronounced on everyone the not guilty
verdict.
Because Jesus died upon the cross, God can pronounce the not guilty verdict on the sinner who
believes in Jesus, who seeks to say goodbye to believing in my own abilities, in believing
in my own good deeds, in believing in my church attendance, in believing in my background,
believing in my contributions to the united way.
It to the person who says, you know, all of the best things I do are really just like filthy
rags when I think of being declared not guilty.
And then suddenly I understand that this baby in Bethlehem was the Christ of Calvary,
and that on that cross, He bore the sins of those who would come to place their faith
and trust in Him.
And so I come to do just that.
As a result, God takes my condemned status and changes it to not guilty.
Okay, so there I am, I've come along and I'm a bit of a cheat, a little bit of a swindler.
I have been reading dirty magazines and I have been fiddling my tax returns and I haven't
been just the perfect guy within my family and I haven't been home as much as I should
and so on.
And I come right up against this news that I, a dirty sinner, can get a non-gilty verdict
and a clean page.
So I say, I'll have that if you please.
Your reason I say it is because the grace of God's work within my life shows me my need
of it and I come to trust in that and I wake up the following morning.
What do I wake up as the following morning?
I wake up the following morning as somebody who's status is radically different, who has
been declared not guilty.
But I wake up the following morning dreadfully in need of renovation.
I wake up the following morning with a whole bunch of garbage that has represented patterns
and principles of my life for which I need some kind of power to deal with this stuff
so that I might become what God declares me now to be having set me uncondemned in
his sight.
How does that happen?
Well that happens according to 1 Thessalonians 523 as a result of the work of the Spirit of
God sanctifying us through and through because all of us bring to our new found faith much
that is inconsistent with it.
And the work of God is to so use the Spirit of God within our lives as to bring about
the transformation so that we might become what we have been declared.
Her friends say to us, you know, well I believe that you profess to follow Jesus Christ
and I heard you in the cafe the other day and you let slip with one of those old jokes.
So yes, why?
Because there's a process going on.
I have been declared not guilty.
Oh, you mean, yeah.
Because of what someone else has done, my status has been changed and now the work of God
within my life is to conform me to the image of the one who changed my status.
That sanctification.
You see, justification is legal, it is external and it is objective.
Sanctification is experimental, it is internal and it is subjective.
One is instantaneous and the other is a process.
And when we come to faith in Jesus Christ, our standing before God in justification is complete,
it's not a matter of degrees.
You can't be a wee bit justified.
Well, I'm thinking I'm a wee bit more justified than I was than last Sunday.
There's no such thing.
If you have come from certain backgrounds, you've been taught to believe that.
You've been taught to believe that you can be a little bit justified.
And if you will do a little bit more religion, you can be a wee bit more justified.
And if you manage to go here, say this prayer and do this thing, then you can get more
and more justified.
The problem is they don't understand justification and they confuse it with sanctification, justification,
it declares us unequivocally righteous in God's sight.
There is no longer any condemnation.
Clean page, don't go back to the garbage cans of sin, don't go back to all of that rubbish,
don't let anybody take you back there.
Now the process of conforming me to the image of his son takes place.
John O, in the great theologian, said, it is the universal renovation of our natures
by the Holy Spirit.
In Britain, every so often, the queen buys a new residence and when she buys a new place
to live, the title deed goes to her and then the people descend upon it to renovate it
and to make it a residence fit for her majesty.
It's a poor analogy in part, but it helps a little.
That is exactly what has happened.
There is a flag flown high from the castle of the justified sinner's heart and the flag
says, the king is in residence here, Jesus has taken up residence in this place.
What, in that dirty old house?
Yes.
You mean with that person?
Yes.
You mean he lives in there?
Yes.
The flag declares it to be so.
Now what is going on?
There's a tremendous renovation process going on in sight, in the bedroom, in the kitchen,
in the living room, in the family, in the bathroom, in the totality of it all.
The spirit of God is at work renovating it, making it a fit dwelling place for He who
is our majesty.
And that you see is what is going on in the life of the Christian.
At various stages and some of us are in a great surge forward.
Others of us are in a pause perhaps, but the work of God is to do just that.
And it is very, very important, loved ones, we understand this morning, first for ourselves
and then so that we might tell our friends, we dare not suppose that a man or a woman
must become righteous before they can be declared righteous.
This is one of the great lies of the evil one.
This has kept many of my friends and neighbors away from church and away from Jesus for
the longest time.
Because they've got the sneaking suspicion that they're going to have to become righteous
before they can be declared righteous.
I've told you about Alec, the old man who lived in the senior citizens' housing, across
from us from Sioux and I in Hamilton, used to meet him regularly in the morning going
for his rolls and getting his milk and buy him twenty cigarettes.
I used to invite him time and time again, he used to say to me, I'll call us then.
I can't come to your church.
If I came in your church, the roof would fall down.
Maybe if I can get cleaned up and fixed up, maybe next year I'll come to the Christmas
service.
I want to see him Alec, it's not like that man.
You don't have to become righteous to be declared righteous.
You have to simply acknowledge that you're unrighteous.
And then God does the rest.
Otherwise there would be no story of the woman at the well.
Otherwise there would be no story of the lady taking an adultery.
There would be no biblical record of a guy called Zacchaeus.
There would be no story in Luke 15, Luke something of the guy who went down to his house
justified.
God be merciful to me, a sinner.
Why did the Pharisees mutter that he went to the house of sinners because they misunderstood
the whole deal?
If this man really is the son of God, don't you think he would hang out with the religious
people?
He said, I mean we're the guys.
We're doing the thing, we're reading the law, we're proclaiming it.
We've got more lists and rules and regulations than most people have had hot dinners.
And yet he keeps passing our house by and he's in with this guy and that guy and they're
drinking and boozing and doing the equivalent of smoking in the whole nine yards, whatever
you can think of as the worst they were doing it.
Jesus comes down and he said, you know I said, you guys can't get it, can you?
I didn't come to call the righteous people.
I came to call sinners to repentance.
And that's why you see Christian living hasn't started for some of you because you haven't
come there.
Some of you are trying to become righteous enough to get declared righteous and you're
never going to do it.
What you have to do is to acknowledge that even if you had all of your life to get righteous,
you couldn't get righteous enough and even when you got that righteous it wouldn't be
enough otherwise Jesus died in vain.
If by my righteousness I can go to heaven then why did Jesus shed his blood upon the cross?
He shed his blood upon the cross as a sinless man for people who are sinners so that he
might take my place, bear my punishment, endure my pain, die in my place.
And then the work of sanctification you see follows after that.
And it is so very important that we understand that sanctification does follow after that because
there are people out there who will teach you that you can get the justified package without
the sanctified package.
There are books and I won't tell you their name that you can find in the Christian bookstore
that will teach you exactly that.
And I want to humbly say to you that if you read your Bible you probably discover that
it is not the most helpful book you ever pulled from a shelf.
The idea that somehow or another I don't have to worry about the demands of Scripture,
the commands of Christ, the instructions of His Word, the fact that there are things that
God desires for me, I just can ignore all of that for the time being.
I just want to have the escape the condemnation package.
I would just like to know that I am declared not guilty and then I'd like to go out and
do whatever I like.
Do you have that version?
Well I'm forced to say there are some people who would tell you that they have that
version but the Bible doesn't have that version.
That's what Romans 6 is about.
What then?
Shall we continue in sin so that grace may abound?
I mean shall we declare ourselves to be those not guilty before Christ and then just go
out and sin like crazy?
We'd be like, has been waking up in the morning, slapping His wife's face so that she could
forgive Him so that He could say, my what a wonderful forgiving person you are.
It is stupidity, it is incongruity, it is silliness.
So the idea that Jesus would declare me not guilty and then I would go out and sin like
fury so that I could show what a wonderful forgiving God is.
It would reveal the fact that I never understood the nature of forgiveness in the first place.
So you see justification and sanctification while not to be confused neither are they
to be disengaged.
Negatively in being sanctified we are cleansed from the influences and pollution of sin.
And positively we are the recipients of a nature which energizes and motivates us in
the way of new life.
Things are different now, something happened to me since I gave my life to Jesus as the
songwriter.
Things are different now, there's a change, it must be since I gave my heart to Christ.
Things I love before have passed away, things I love far more have come to stay.
Things are different now, something happened to me.
You see that's the great discovery.
That's why I love you see not to be always announcing, Mr. Sohn, so profess faith in
Jesus Christ, three from last Sunday, two from the previous Sunday and everything.
You won't hear much of that from me, you haven't in almost 13 years.
Just come to the baptism services and listen, I delight to hear my children are walking in
the truth.
It's not scalps on the wall, it is life on the path and it is my life on the path which
gives reality to my profession of faith in Jesus.
So he is at work cleansing the pollution and goodness knows there's enough pollution
and he is at work instilling within me a principle and the spirit nourishes me and enables
me because here is one of the other great silly ideas that somehow or another you are justified
by faith and then you are sanctified by effort.
No, you are both justified and sanctified by faith.
The difference is that in justification we bring nothing to the process, in sanctification
we bring something to the process because justification owes nothing to human endeavor,
sanctification owes something to human endeavor.
Otherwise all the exhortations of the Bible are silly and why does it tell you to work
out your own salvation with fear and trembling if you are not supposed to put some effort
into it?
Why does it say in 2 Peter 1 that you are to add your faith, goodness and kindness in all
these things if you don't add to your faith?
And yet there are people who go around and they tell you that the way to become sanctified
is to do nothing.
Find a big chair, sit in it and wait for God to do everything.
Let go and let God do everything.
Now there's a measure of truth to that.
We need to let go of a striving approach to Christianity but that's not the end of the
story.
It is not either or it's both end.
The Spirit of God energizes me and creates within me an effort.
The Spirit of God works a principle, a new supernatural habit within my life, a supernatural
principle which can't be acquired by fulfilling the duties that God has for me but is preserved
by fulfilling the duties.
In the same way then, the law of God is written on our hearts so that it is fulfilled
by an inner desire rather than by an external compulsion.
I put it to you that if a man is only kept in faithfulness by some tenuous commitment
to external compulsion, he will never be kept in faithfulness to his wife.
The only way is when the external constraints are harmonized with an internal compulsion.
It was an internal compulsion which kept Joseph, wasn't it?
How could I do this great dreadful thing and sin against God?
Joseph was a different kind of person and when the temptation came it was the energizing
of the Spirit of God and so he just could energize and he just stood there with part of
his wife checking her out.
Now he didn't if you know the story.
He split.
He went running down the street so fast he left half of his clothes behind.
He was energized and he was full of effort and the work of sanctification is the juxtaposition
of those two truths.
The Spirit of God energizes and we work out our own salvation with fear and trembling.
And this is to be in totality.
That's the significance of the little phrase through and through.
Sanctify you through and through.
I think that that phrase through and through is then explained by what follows, although
what follows has been the battleground for many a theological discussion.
Was Paula tricotomist?
Did he believe that there were three parts to being human or was he a dichotomist believing
there were two parts to being human?
You say the fact of the matter is the plain teaching of the New Testament seems to suggest
two parts almost exclusively.
Furthermore, Spirit and soul often appear to be synonymous.
For example, in the words of Mary, my soul glorifies the Lord and my Spirit rejoices in
God, my Savior.
In fact, there's only two other places apart from 1 Thessalonians 5, 23, where Spirit
and soul are clearly distinguished from one another.
That's in Hebrews chapter 4 and in 1 Corinthians chapter 2.
But do you think it really matters?
Well, it does matter.
How much does it matter?
Does it matter enough to stop evangelizing until we get it sorted out?
Probably not.
Does it matter enough to stop praying until we decide whether we're tricotomists or
tricotomists?
Does it matter enough to learn how to spell those two words before we decide?
What do we know?
The main things are the plain things.
And the plain things are the main things.
I personally don't care whether you're a tricotomist or a dichotomist.
I believe that what Paul is saying here is, may you be sanctified in your entirety, may
the whole of you, your spirit, your soul, and your body, whatever way you want to look
at it.
The totality of you.
May you be kept blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Leon Morris summarizes it, hopefully, when he says, Paul is not here concerned to give
a theoretical analysis of the nature of man, but is uttering a fervent prayer that the
entire man may be preserved.
In other words, says, Paul, I love you folks in Thessalonica.
I know you're not a perfect church.
There isn't going to be a perfect church.
I know you're not perfect people.
But I do know that God in His grace has declared you not guilty.
My longing for you, He says, is that you would be increasingly conformed to the image of
Jesus, that you would look more and more like Jesus.
None of us is the finished article.
We're all under process of renovation.
That ought to create humility, it ought to engender sensitivity, it ought to allow us to
be a little more tolerant with one another than we often are.
Who's the person, God Himself?
What's the process to conform as more and more to the image of Christ?
What's the product?
What's the promise?
Well, we'll come to that tonight, as we gather for our baptism service.
That is bowed together in prayer.
Father, thank you that we don't have to become righteous, to be declared righteous, but
we thank you that on account of what Jesus has done in childlike trust and turning to
you, you remove the record of our sin, declare as uncondemned, not guilty, and the Holy
Spirit works to renovate and make lovely our lives as you're dwelling.
May the wonder of your grace and the truth of who you are and the immensity of what you
have chosen to do in the Lord Jesus, stir our hearts with faith and gratitude and humility
and peace.
Be with us in the hours of this day, in all of our comings and goings, without loved ones
many of whom are scattered far from us.
May it be that at our heads hit the pillow at the end of the day, we will be able to reflect
with great gratitude upon the wonder of your love and kindness towards us in the provision
of this day, in the provision of your son, and in the provision of one another as a source
of encouragement and upbuilding, and now unto him who is able to keep you from falling
and to present you faultless before the presence of his glory with exceeding joy, to the only
wise God our Savior be glory and majesty, dominion and power, now and forevermore, amen.
You've been listening to a message by Alistair Begg from Truth For Life, and you're welcome
to pass this sermon along to others, but please don't charge for it or alter it without
written permission from Truth For Life.
This content has been provided to you free of charge by the generous supporters of Truth
For Life.
For additional information about how you can support Truth For Life, please visit us online
at truthforlife.org.
Here you'll find free message downloads from Alistair Begg, as well as links to our podcast,
mobile apps, and other resources to help you grow in your Christian faith.
Again, the website is truthforlife.org You can also follow us on Facebook and Twitter
to stay in touch with Truth For Life and Alistair Begg.
Truth For Life, where the learning is for living.
