The following message by Alistair Begg is made available by Truth For Life.
For more information, visit us online at truthforlife.org.
Since the beginning of chapter 4, Paul has been urging upon the Thessalonian believers
a call to live a life that is pleasing to God.
Most people would say I would like to live a life that is pleasing to God,
and yet perhaps would be then unclear as to what the constituent elements of such a pleasing life might be.
And so the Apostle leaves us in no doubt as he proceeds to outline for his readers what it will mean to live such a life.
And by the time we get to the 12th verse of chapter 5, he is providing some essentials for life in the local church.
It's been suggested that in the verses that we just read, and indeed in the few that follow,
Paul is categorically dealing with three expressed concerns from verse 16 and following,
dealing with the matter of public worship.
As Philip paraphrases, verse 19, I beg your pardon, never dampen the fire of the Spirit
and never despise what is spoken in the name of the Lord.
This idea of joyful always praying continually, thankful in all circumstances,
may well have to do with the expression of God's people when they come together in worship.
Verse 14 and 15, deal directly with the issue of how those who name the name of Christ relate to one another in Christian fellowship,
and to those verses we will come.
And in verses 12 and 13, the matter that is before us this morning,
namely the nature of leadership within the church and the response of people to that leadership.
You should know that Paul frequently addresses his readers in very kindly and tender terms.
The use of the word brothers is frequent throughout the whole letter and not least of all from the beginning of chapter 4.
We might equally well include sisters in relationship to that.
For what Paul is saying is this, not only are you children of the day as it were,
not only do you belong to the day which we considered last time there in verses 4 and following,
but also you belong to the family.
You're not only members of a new daytime encounter, but you are members of God's family.
This is one of Paul's favorite metaphors.
He uses it with frequency, and for example in Ephesians 3, he says,
for this reason I kneel before the Father from whom his whole family in heaven on earth derives its name.
And of all that may be true of us in terms of what it means to know and follow Christ, those who do,
it is imperative that we understand that it is our mutual relationship in the Lord Jesus,
which provides the basis for our mutual behavior.
It is because we belong to Him and we belong to one another that we must behave in this way.
You see, until we understand that, then a call to this kind of behavior seems to be a call simply to externalism.
And that is why we've labored long and hard to make clear that first of all our attachment is to God through our Lord Jesus Christ,
and in such an attachment we are related to one another.
Because we're members of the family, he has been calling us to brotherly love in verse 9 of chapter 4.
He's been calling us to exercise a ministry of encouragement in one another's lives at the end of chapter 4.
And in verse 11 of chapter 5, he says, and I want you to take it upon yourselves to be building each other up.
And then he adds quite encouragingly, just as in fact you are doing, just as in fact you're doing.
In other words, he says, I'm not writing this to correct a problem.
I am writing this in order to continue a pattern.
And that's exactly how I feel in preaching these verses this morning.
Some people would say, oh, well, we must have come to, if you've come as visitors and you come in this morning
and we're dealing with these verses, unless you understand that we're going systematically and
consecutively through the scriptures, you may assume that I picked these verses out somehow
this last week for the express purpose of today.
No, these have been ordered from eternity past that we would arrive at this day at this verse
dealing with this subject.
Indeed, I've been gone all this past week at Cedarville College, being to the students down there.
So I come to it out of an obedience to the task at hand,
and to the verses which are mixed to be dealt with.
First Thessalonians 5 verse 12, just as in the home,
respect for leadership is essential to its health, its wholeness, and its harmony.
If the kids don't do what the mum and dad say, it's total chaos, no matter which way you cut it.
They can dress it up, they can make much of external submission while they have rebellious
hearts inside, and you just have total chaos.
In the same way, within the church, the harmony of the church, the health of the church,
the wholeness of the church is directly related to an understanding of biblical leadership
and a preparedness to submit to that leadership.
We don't know why Paul addresses them in this way, why they were in need of this council,
suffice it to say they were in need of the council.
And of course, we are equally in need of it today.
In every crumbling culture you will find an absence of respect.
The breakdown of respect for justice, for law, for law keepers, law makers,
respect for those who teach, respect for those who enforce authority in terms of the police,
respect within the framework of the family and so on, whenever a culture has begun to rot from
its core, it will express itself on the fringes with this absolute manifest lack of respect.
Indeed, when Paul writes to Timothy as a young man, he says to him, you know, in the last days,
there will be certain characteristics that will mark people, and he said they will be boastful,
proud, abusive, disobedient to their parents, and frankly, ungrateful.
And all of those adjectives may be summarized as being expressive of an absence of respect.
And so it is within that kind of climate that we come then to consider just two things this morning.
First of all, the activity of the leaders, and then secondly, the attitude of the members.
The activity of the leaders. Now, who are these leaders? We ask you brothers to respect those.
They're identified by three phrases here, incidentally. Some have thought that perhaps he's
referring to three different groups of people, but such is certainly not the case.
What you have, or those of you who are interested in those of you who can cough for a moment,
what you have is a single definite article that is followed by three participals.
Indicating the fact that these are three express ways of identifying the activity of one distinct group.
What are these characteristics and who are these people? Well, first of all, the people are the elders.
The Presbyteroi, from which we get Presbyter, or the Episcopoid, from which we get Episcopal,
or the Poimian, from which you don't give very much, but which means shepherd, and which is translated
pastor, and these words are used interchangeably in First Peter and in Acts, etc. But by this time,
there is little doubt that there was already an established structure of leadership. That's the
point I'm making, so that the people weren't in any doubt when the word is given here,
concerning these people who are identified in these three ways. People would not be looking
around going, oh, I wonder who this is. Who do you think this might be? They would understand
clearly that Paul was addressing the matter of leadership, and he was identifying and targeting
their response to the elders of the church. By this time, the eldership of churches was taking
on a fairly structured format. You may turn for just a moment, let me give you one or two verses
that underpin this. In Acts chapter 11, concerning the church at that time in verse 30,
we're told that in the giving of gifts, they did this, and they sent their gift to the elders
by Barnabas and Saul. The prophets came down from Jerusalem to Antioch, and in the giving of gifts,
they were given to the elders. In other words, they were given to the leadership. In Acts chapter 14,
you discover in verse 23 that the responsibility of the apostles, having preached the good news,
seen people understand it, believe it, commit their life to Christ, they returned back through
some of the regions which they had previously visited. This is verse 21, then they returned to
Listera, Iconium and Antioch, strengthening the disciples, encouraging them to remain true to
the faith. We must go through many hardships to enter the kingdom of God, they said,
and Paul and Barnabas appointed elders for them in each church, and with prayer and fasting
committed them to the Lord. So here, these people, they're new believers. They have committed their
lives to Jesus Christ. They have come from darkness into light. They're now children of the day.
They're looking at one another and saying, what happens next? Paul and his gang come back into town,
if I may refer to them in reverential tones, and that way Paul and his colleagues come back to town,
and they say, now look, let us just make sure you understand. This is going to be one tough road.
You didn't join some kind of little club here that will leave you living life in tranquil
ease. This is going to be tough, living for Jesus Christ as tough. And we don't want you all left
to your own devices, and that's why we are setting apart amongst you leaders who will be able to
watch for you, who will be able to warn you, who will be able to lead you, and who will be able
to feed you. And so the New Testament pattern is seen unfolding at chapter 20, as he takes his
leave of the Ephesian elders, Paul gives them the instruction that they need. Verse 28, he says,
keep watch over yourselves, and all the flock of which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers.
Be shepherds of the Church of God which he bought with his own blood. The New Testament pattern
then is that Jesus, as the chief shepherd, has delegated to undershepherds, to pastors or elders,
the privileged oversight of the flock which he has purchased with his own blood.
So that what we have here are not trustees of an organization,
board members of a human institution, but we have pastors of an organism which from eternity
God has purposed to put together for his own glory, and he has set his love and his grace upon
individuals and has brought them to himself and has said to them, now listen, it is important
that you get together with a group of people who in whose life you will be able to live,
whom you may be able to exhort and encourage under instruction and under teaching in order that
you may grow up in your faith. And to the elders he says, now I want you in peril of your very lives
to look after this group. And that's why you see God doesn't just appoint any tongue,
dick, or hairy to the responsibilities of eldership, just because a guy successful in business doesn't
mean he's an elder of the Church. Just because a person has got a high intellect, it doesn't mean
they can necessarily tend the flock of God that's in their charge. The issue is not to be found
on the basis of external prerequisites for other responsibilities, but is to be found in the
characteristics of godliness and awareness of the Word and ability to teach and an aptness to bring
it to bear upon the lives of others. It is not incidentally impassant our task this morning to address
what we have addressed with frequency on other occasions in relationship to the giftedness
and the characteristics of those who assume the responsibility of eldership. You can find many
studies at the tape table if you'd like to fill in the background on that. These elders then
are responsible for the congregation, they are responsible to the Lord for the congregation,
they are not responsible to the congregation. Where you have a group responsible to the congregation,
then the congregation is in charge of the Church. That is called Congregational Church Government,
one man, one vote, a form of democracy, imported from secular American thinking before that
secular Western European thinking, but challenged by biblical thinking and understanding.
And so what we have here at Parkside Church, what we endeavor to do is to understand what the
Bible is teaching and therefore we have a group of men who have been set aside. There are no women
involved in the group. We do not believe that God has given to us the freedom to put women in a
position of authority over men and thereby there are no women elders, but to these godly men
has been given the responsibility of ordering the affairs of the Church. It doesn't give to such men
any basis for being high-minded or being heavy-handed or being autocratic.
Indeed, as we will see, the reverse is the basis of usefulness.
Now, three phrases define the activity of these men. First of all, they are those who work hard
among you. There's a little dig here, I'm sure, to the leaders in passing because after all,
let's say you're one of the leaders and you read it and it says, now I want you to submit to those
who work hard among you. The bell goes off and says, hey, I wonder am I working hard enough?
I wonder, is there anything about my life that is marked by hard work?
And there is no question that pastoral ministry has provided for some individuals a place to hide
from honest and earnest endeavor. And there are some lazy rascals who seem to spend most of
their days wearing slippers who rarely get out of their pajamas before a reasonable hour in the
morning. It would seem. And yet they like to exhort and encourage their man and the church to be
up and about their business early in the morning, you know. Get off to work and be good outstanding
citizens so that I can lie here in my bed and be a good outstanding pastor. There is no question
that there is a danger for absolute laziness and therefore we need to guard against that.
Biblical leadership, pastoral ministry, being an elder is not a leisure time pursuit. That's
what he's saying. In fact, the word that he uses here is a word for producing sweat. It is the
same word that he uses of himself in verse 9 of chapter 2 concerning making tents. He says back
there about his tent making. He says, you surely remember brothers, our toil and our hardship.
In other words, we were going at it big time. It's the same word that he uses concerning the
farmer in 2 Timothy 2 6 where he says the hard working farmer should be the first to receive a
share of the crops. And it is interestingly enough, the same word that he uses in 1 Timothy 5 17
concerning the task of preaching and teaching. The elders among you who rule well, he says,
our worthy of double honor, especially those who labor in the word and in doctrine.
And the word therefore labor is who break a sweat, who give themselves unstintingly to the task
in such a way that it is demanding of them. And in each case, the word is emphasizing the
weirdiness which follows the straining of all ones' powers to the utmost.
Every so often someone will come to me and say, you know, I can do what you do.
I can stand up there and talk. The last two people have told me that I've given them the
opportunity to, quotes, stand up here and talk. And after they had quotes, stood up here and
talked. They understood a number of things. One, there is a difference between saying something
and having something to say. Two, they'll scare the living daylight side of you.
And three, unless you give yourself to it with weirdism toil, it will be apparent to all.
Speaking this week with some pastors in another context, we're addressing the issues that pastors
talk about, you know, how are you doing, how's it going, how are your folks, et cetera. And
another guy said to me the same thing. He said, I don't think my congregation knows what's
involved in preaching the Word of God, Sunday by Sunday by Sunday. I don't think they realize
that we are driven again to our poopits, the way sailors are called to the sea. I don't think they
realize that to preach, to really preach is to die naked a little bit at a time and to realize
every time you do, you're going to have to do it all over again real soon.
I don't think they realize how many pounds you expand in arduous study and in earnest proclamation.
To take seriously the tasks of pastoral ministry, to be prepared to lead when folks don't want to
follow, to be prepared to admonish when people don't want to hear, to provide instruction when
people continue to fall asleep is weirdism toil. There is great joy in it, but it is toil.
And that's why it's often difficult for me at least to make the transition from doing this
to talking about total trivialities immediately afterwards. You'll say, well, you know,
it wasn't very friendly. It didn't seem to be listening to what I was saying. You know what,
I probably wasn't listening to what you were saying. I'm sorry, I might as well admit it right
up front. I was bemoaning what a lousy job I just did on 1st Thessalonians 5, 12, and 13.
And thinking about how it might have been done better and how it should be done better,
and how there's more effort needs to be involved, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. Oh, yes, hello,
yes. Oh, fine, yes, have a lovely time, yes. Oh, hello, hello. Now I'm not saying I don't like
to do that. I'm just telling you that it's a big transition.
That's why it is important that we understand what leadership is about. They are supposed
to be those who are working hard among you. Secondly, they are over you in the Lord.
They are over you in the Lord. They are overseers. Now those who oversee are also those who are
under. They are those who must give an account. That's what Hebrews 13 says. It says that those
who are in leadership are going to give an account to God for all that they've done. Obey your
leaders. They're over you, submit to their authority, because they must keep watch over you
as men who give an account, obey them so that their work will be a joy and not a burden for that
would be of no advantage to you. In other words, he says they are over you, but they are also under
Christ. Therefore, the characteristic of leadership is not authority, but humility. The characteristic
of leadership is not power, but it is gentleness. That's what Jesus is saying in Mark chapter 10
to the people who love to lord it over other people. He said, listen, if you want to be master,
you must be first servant, and if you want to be first, then you're going to have to make
yourself the servant of all. We say, I don't understand this. You just flat out said that they were
over and that the congregation is responsible to them, not for them, and now you're seeing they're
supposed to be servants of the congregation. So how can there be servants of the congregation without
the congregation being their boss as it were? That's a good question. Here's the answer.
I will endeavor with my colleagues always to be your servant, but you will never be our master.
You will never be our master. I am called to the task of preaching by the Lord of glory himself.
You couldn't shut me up. You can move me over and move me out, but you can't shut me up.
You can put me in a barrel, and I'll preach out of the bonghole of the barrel,
because God has called me to that task. Now in the fulfilling of that task, I want to serve you.
That's why I study every week. That's why my colleagues do as they do every week,
so that we might be your servants, so that we might be able to encourage you along the journey,
so that you might have food for your soul, so that you might have a map by which you may walk,
so that you might have counsel and instructions, so that you might be rebuked and exhorted,
so that you may be encouraged, that you may be trained in righteousness, and it is an act of
servanthood to go through all of that. But our master is the Lord Jesus himself.
Authentic leadership in the New Testament is servant leadership,
and it is from the perspective of being a servant that we exercise our management.
You see here in America a management technique that is bled across the Atlantic Ocean,
has fallen foul of the idea that if you call everybody by their first name,
that is actually, you know, sort of servant leadership. So we don't have big names on the
office because that is pretentious and precocious and sort of a British kit bag. And the idea is,
you get to call everybody, hey Bob, how are you doing? Hey Fred, you know, and so he's the president
and I'm the such, and therefore it's all working fine. Hey, it isn't working fine.
You can call somebody sir with an undertone of deep disrespect. You can also call somebody
sir with an undertone of deep submission. You can call somebody Bob in a way that is expressive
of genuine submission, and you can call somebody Bob in a way that is frankly disregarding.
The phraseology is subservient to the attitude of the heart. It is hard attitude that is the issue.
In the same way that a child can say, yes dad, and a child can say, yes dad, sure man,
all right man, okay, still dad and man, tone is expressive of attitude. So,
don't let us kid ourselves that because we use the right language we understand the right process.
Disrespect comes across just as clearly, maybe even clearer, using people's first names
than it does ever use in titles. Now, the management factor is described by Paul also in
1st Timothy chapter 3. These people are over as in the Lord. We have leaders there over us
and the exercise or responsibility to manage what is going on. And so he says in 1st
Timothy chapter 3, where should they get their management training? Well, they get their
management training. He says within their own house, he must manage 1st Timothy 3, 4, he must
manage his own family well and see that his children obey him with proper respect.
If anyone does not know how to manage his own family, how can he take care of the Church of God?
So, if a man is in submission to his wife, he cannot take care of the Church of God. He shouldn't
be an elder because he will not be the elder of the Church, he will be present at the meetings,
but his wife will be the elder of the Church. Because he can't make a decision on his own,
changes his mind in between meetings, he used to take me a long time to say, you know,
how was this guy so dumb last month and so bright this month? Then I realized that he went
home to the source of his knowledge and his wife told them you should do this and this and this,
he came back the next month that guy was a genius. I suddenly realized we should ditch him,
get his wife. I mean, as we talked to her directly on the phone, because the fight
doesn't matter, he's not leading her, she's leading him and I'm not talking about the natural
interaction between husband and wife. I'm talking about someone who has not got the control
within his own home and the same being true of his children, says Paul, don't put that individual
in a position of management in your Church because all they will do is declare the chaos of their
own house in the chaos of the Church and he says since the Church is bought with a blood of Jesus
Christ, we better not mess around with that. But listen, loved ones, what then is management?
What is it for you to be a dad? I mean, when you look forward to the first little one coming along
in these early days, what were you thinking? You weren't thinking, oh good, I can't wait for him to
be born, grow up, start a talk and be able to take the garbage out because I'm so tired of taking
the garbage out. You didn't think like that, not if you're half a dad you didn't or maybe if you're
only half a dad you did, but the fact is, you didn't think of that. You didn't think, oh good
now I love somebody to boss around, oh good now there'll be somebody else to give instructions to,
I'll be able to tell my wife and then I'll turn over and I'll tell him and then I'll get a whole
brood of them and I'll just give orders all over the place, you know. I'll be the Von Trapp family,
I'll have a series of whistles and bells and by the left they'll march when I say so. No, not at all.
The greatest joys and physical parenting are not found in issuing orders. The greatest joys and
physical parenting are found in establishing a framework that allows our children to grow in favor
with God and favor with man, that's the greatest joy. Indeed, the greatest joy is being able to
step away from the orders and from the instructions and to see our children taking on biblical
principles within themselves and so when you tell them, we're home at 1130 to come home at 11
because you trust them. Rather than giving them so many instructions, you've got to chase them all
around the town to try and find them. And the whole expectation in biblical leadership is that
there would be such a framework of trust, both the trust of the leaders for those under their
care and the trust of those under their care for the leaders that in that mutuality of relationship,
the body of Christ may grow and thrive and develop and prosper and become what it could not
become under any other circumstances at all. It is then that as we are exercising leadership
over those who are under our care, we do so in the Lord, i.e. within the framework of Christian
relationships. That is, as it relates to the matters of spiritual life. There are some sorry
situations going around where people under some kind of strange tyrannical perspective of Christian
leadership have determined that they have the right to interfere and intrude on virtually every
aspect of the members of their congregation's life. And that is a great disservice to the word of
God and it is something to be stayed away from altogether. I am talking because I can see somebody
saying, I wonder what he is talking about. I am talking about a kind of tyrannical approach that
does not allow girls in the church to date guys unless the girl has come to ask of the eldership,
the freedom to make the dating arrangements, that they are not able to disbursed their income
without coming first to check with the eldership, whether their income should be apportioned in this
way. In some people would go, for example, the 1st Thessalonians 5, 12 and 13, to use this as the
mandate for that kind of activity. There is no place for that kind of approach and it is certainly
not being counted in here by Paul and it would be something from which we would want to stand back
a very long way. Well, third area of activity then is not only, they work hard among you,
they are over you and the Lord but they admonish you. The word admonish simply means they give
themselves to try and keep you on the path, to try and keep you on the path. That is what we
want to do. We just want to keep Parkside on the path. So everything we do, everything we write,
everything we communicate is ultimately with that focus. We believe, Lord Jesus, that in a generation
that comes after us, they will take from our hands the elements of truth that we are able to leave,
therefore we want to make sure that our people in our day stay on the path. And loved ones,
you know there are many by-path meadows, there are many clamoring voices, there are many ways in
which you may go and it is our honest, earnest, prayerful endeavor, indeed it is the agony of our
hearts that whatever else happens, this particular congregation for whom we will be held accountable will
stay on the path of biblical orthodoxy, will stay on the path of genuine love, will stay on the
path of zealous evangelism, will stay on the path of believing prayer, will stay on the path whereby
the main things are the plain things and the plain things are the main things and we'll learn to be
able to say no that is peripheral, we fuse to rear, we fuse to argue over it, that would be
schism and then at the same time to be able to say no that is central and we must debate over it
to refuse to do so would be weakness.
When Paul admonishes his loved ones in Acts 20 he says I never failed night and day to admonish
in war and every one of you with tears in my eyes, his tone is that of a brother but it's the
tone of a big brother and if you are a big brother if you've ever been a big brother to anyone
you know what it's like, you know how important it is, you know how much you care for your
kid brother or sister underneath you, you want to keep them on the path, you've learned the lesson,
you've took them out on their bikes and they said why do you have to shout at me so much and you
said I'm sorry I don't mean to shout at you, I just don't want to lose you under a wheel here,
why are you always on my case, I don't mean to be on your case, I just want you to stay on the
path, why are you over there interfering with my friends because I don't want you end up
smoking grass behind the school sheds, do you understand that?
They look into our eyes and when they see the tears they know we care,
that we're not caring because we want our family to be clinically orthodoxly pure but we care
with a passion for those kid brothers and sisters, that's the picture of Paul here,
that's the picture of leadership, we brothers and we sisters come on now, we're over you in the
Lord we never asked for the job we got it, here we're warning you we're admonishing you we want
you to stay on the path and as time goes by it will be apparent to the youngsters in the family
that there is a tenderness in their big brother's eyes which is unwilling to shame them
and yet there is a firmness in their big brother's eyes that is unwilling to compromise on the
issue and we need that balance, well spent a long time there on the activity of the leaders,
let's just turn it finally to the attitude of the members, we can summarize this as Paul does,
first word, respect, we ask you brothers to respect those who work hard among you, in other words
appreciate the value of the leaders, they provide the church with pastoral care in submission to
God's word especially by teaching, that is why in Acts chapter 6 the Apostle said it's not right for
us to leave the preaching of the word to take care of tables, not because tables don't need
taken care of but because others who have not been called to the responsibility of teaching the
word of God conserve the body of Christ by doing that, it's not right for us to leave the
preaching of the word of God to serve tables, therefore let us set apart people who are able to
exercise that kind of ministry and we will give ourselves to the ministry and prayer, to the
preaching of the word of God and to prayer, well he says now when you find yourself in that kind of
context make sure that your attitude towards those in positions of leadership should be framed by
the matter of respect, to respect does not mean to flatter or to fawn over them, nobody wants that,
nobody needs that, anybody with half a brain is able to detect the difference between a
genuine compliment and a dose of flattery, told you before flattery is like perfume you can sniff it
but don't ever swallow it, for the guy who flatters you one day will stick a knife in your back
within seven days without any doubt at all, in 20 plus years of pastoral ministry I've learned
to be really careful of people who use phraseology like you know I love pastor ex he's such a star,
he's a star, now I understand they're trying to be encouraging but they don't realize how dangerous
that kind of language is, first of all he is dead not a star, any kind of star he is, he's a dying
star, a falling star, an extinguisher star, a burned out star, if he's a star he's going to have to be
qualified by some of these adjectives but don't call him a star, a star he's not except one that
is about to fall as a result of that kind of silly talk, Mr. Ex you know what a guy he is you know
I've watched him and he can do no wrong he just does never put say foot wrong, well I'd like to
meet him, I certainly would and if he has managed that for the length of time that you say look out
because he's about to come down like a ton of breaks, oh you know Mr. Ex he is the key to it,
he's the key you know when you look at the situation and you're looking for the key you need to look
no further than over there he's the key to it, yeah well watch because God is just about to change
the locks on the door, you think you're the key to it watch while God changes the locks on you
and he will and he definitely will, there is one thing we can say with absolute certainty
God will not share his glory with anyone else, he won't share it with a man, he won't share it
with a woman, he won't share it with a group and he isn't going to share it with a church,
that's why we have out on the door here you have exalted above all things your name and your word
okay we managed to get it on the door now Lord Jesus help us to get it in our hearts
and Holy Spirit help us to live it in our lives, to respect does not mean to fall over or to flatter
however on the other hand it does mean to respect and as is so often the case in relationship to
trying to apply biblical truth we fall into one of two extremes either we have this kind of
undying devotion to these leaders as if they were something that they are not or else on the
other extreme we totally disregard them we just despise them we ignore them we treat them as
absolutely dispensable they are at pains to say you know what God can raise up another in my place
and we're at pains to say our loudest amen at that point amen and I wish he would amen and I hope
he does amen and let's get on with life and so we despise them I have you know as I meet with
guys in pastoral ministry and as they call me every week I am absolutely amazed at what some
of my colleagues have to go through from their congregations from their fellow elders they are
absolutely brutalized they are mangled they are beaten I don't even know how they get up to
preach on a Sunday and they love to go away on little trips where somebody might actually get
it wrong and assume that they really are worthwhile so that when they come back and get another
hiding they'll be able to look forward to going away again Hebrews 13 17 never forget your leaders
who first spoke the word of God to you respect and secondly hold them in the highest regard in love
hold them in the highest regard in love in other words you don't just hold them here you hold
them here you see this tension again this paradox between on the one hand looking only to Christ
and yet on the other hand saying you know what Jesus has chosen to use him in my life for this
purpose and therefore I'm just so thankful to Jesus I honor Christ and I hold him in high regard
I don't have enough frames in my in my possession to put the photographs in
of the man whom I hold in the highest regard in love because of their work
man whom I would travel a continent in whose presence to be who if they gave me the privilege of
just carrying their Bible to a conference I'd go and carry it to the conference and if they did
their shoes polished I'd polish their shoes I'd fold their clothes I'd do anything just to be with
them why because they're stars because they never did anything wrong because they're brilliant no
because God has chosen to take them up and use them in my life and I hold them in the highest regard
in love because of their work not because of their personality see that's the great and horrible
danger of late 20th century leadership we appoint leaders on the basis of personality not on the
basis of character we appoint leaders on the basis of splash not on the basis of substance
we appoint leaders on the basis of politics not on the basis of principle and the New Testament
calls it all in question it says no no you want to hold them in highest regard hold them in highest
regard because of their work because frankly if you try and hold them in highest regard because
of their personality they'll be enough in their personality to let you down if you try and hold
them in highest regard because they always do what you want them to do and champion your causes
and tickle your ears and and stroke your fancy then that will be a roller coaster ride
but as you look at them and you say now here is a man and he is giving himself to the task of
eldership in the church he's working faithfully in his daily routine he's giving himself to his
family and here I see him staying on to answer my questions to pray with me whatever it might be
he's not a kind of guy I would have played with his school he's not a kind of fellow that
frankly would be in my immediate sphere of friendship we are radically different in terms of
personality but you know what I hold that guy in the highest regard in love because of his work
people who follow and support leadership on the basis of personality will quickly deserted on
the very same basis the church member asked to learn to say it's not my personal preference but
it is the good of the church which is the important thing local churches will never be able to do
their work effectively if the leaders are not always continually prayerfully loyally supported
by their followers effective leadership demands requires effective following
and if we are continually critical of those who are in leadership over us it's small wonder if they
can't perform the miracles that we demand from them we want our leaders to be able to do everything
well all of the time we want to be able to take them apart limb by limb over Sunday lunch
then we want to be able to reassemble them according to our own identicate program
put them together exactly the way we fancy them which unfortunately is not the way somebody
two rows behind fancies them or three rows behind him fancies them so we have this disembodied
entity continually being restructured according to the fancies and preferences of individual members
it'll never work it can never happen you just got to say hey this is Joe I mean that's the way he is
you say who's Joe I don't know I just made the name up I don't want to personalize it
but if personalized it we must you say well that's allister yeah he he does that I mean I've heard
him I've heard him tell people to take babies right out the place it really takes me off when he does
that yes sometimes he is that way yeah now I would like him to be a bit more like that yeah I wish
he was that man I'd love him to change in that you go through a list he'll keep you going well
into the late afternoon the writer couple we over before you finish your list but you know what
at the end of the day what are what are any of us except a bunch of frail humanity that God chooses
to pick out and to use for his purposes none of us have got anything to boast about anything to
say about ourselves what after all is Paul what after all is a Paulus what after all is Peter
only servants through whom you came to believe well I think that's enough let me say this in closing
the issue here remember is living to please God we instructed you he says how to live in order to
please God well I want to please God okay well part of pleasing God is having a right attitude
towards the activity of biblical leadership okay I'm committed to that are you you committed to that
committed to that no matter what you prepared to say I'm prepared to do whatever biblical leadership
calls me to do provided they do not violate the Bible in calling me to do it prepare to do that
that's what it takes see there is a difference between a biblical mandate and personal preference
our family life operates on the basis of several biblical mandates husbands love your wife's
as Christ loved the church gotta do it biblical mandate wife submit your husbands as
and to the Lord gotta do it biblical mandate children obey your parents because this is right in
the Lord that your years may go along upon the land biblical mandate gotta do it but we've also
got a ton of things in our family there are just personal preferences and as long as our personal
preferences are not in violation of biblical mandates it's okay to have certain personal preferences
and indeed there are a lot of personal preferences within our family and each member of the family
has got an opportunity to express their personal preferences but guess what when it comes right
down to it you know who finally decides on all the personal preferences the leaders yeah
so the kids get together say you know we thought it'd be a great idea if we went here and we
went here tomorrow said thank you thank you for expressing your preference we'll take that into
account we come back to them say guess what we're not going here we're going there we're not going
tomorrow we're going two weeks tomorrow well I don't think that's very fair you're not paying
I didn't tell you to go and jump on the lake i just told you that this is how it's going
to be this is a personal preference well you're saying that your personal preferences
of biblical mandate no i'm not i'm telling you son this is a personal preference guess what
I'm your dad we're doing it let's go loved once I don't want to monkey around or cut around
it i'm gonna tell you something there are certain things that we do is leadership in this church
that are, frankly, the personal preferences of leadership at the church, at any given
moment in time. We're going to change things, move things, turn up things, turn things
upside down, set them on their heads, move them back, move them around, move them forward,
we'll do it so often that it'll make your head spin. And the only way that you will
manage to stay the course is if you're prepared to do what it says in here to do. Trust them,
respect them, hold them in highest regard because of their work. Now we may be wrong in
terms of personal preference. Then in that case, we'll come back and say, guess what?
We were wrong. And then we'll do something else. But for the time being, we'll do it the
way we think we ought to do it. And we are facing, at this point, in our church, probably
the first great danger of becoming classically bourgeois, institutionalized, and stuck that
I have ever seen in 12-plus years here in pastoral ministry. And if for no other reason than
to prevent that happening, we're going to pick pieces up and move them all around the
room, knowing you furniture, same old furniture, just a different feel. So when you come in and
find your favorite chair moved, don't start stomping around going, who did that? Who's in charge
around here? That chair has been here for seven years for goodness sake. Yeah, well, we moved
it over there. What is that? A biblical mandate? No, it's a personal preference. Well, I don't
like it over there. I understand that. But it's going over there. Now get over there and
sit in it or sit on a floor. Say, well, I don't like the sound of that. Frankly, I just heard it.
I don't like the sound of it either. Sounds autocratic, but the principle remains. What's the
activity of the leadership to sweat? They're over as in the Lord. They're to keep us on the
path. What's our responsibility? Respect them. Don't flatter them. Don't debase them. Just
respect them and hold them in the highest regard in love because of their work. You really can get
it a lot clearer than that. Let's pray together. Our gracious God and our Father, we thank you
that we have the Bible to study that we don't have to come on the Lord's Day morning and try and
think up a topic and plow around in that through a few verses together and make up a sermon. But
that we are students of your word, we are servants of your word. We pray that our congregation will be
abounding more and more in the matters that are here before us today. We do pray that you will
take your word and write it afresh in our hearts. Save us in leadership from autocracy, from dominating
and domineering. Save us from monopolizing and help us to multiply. Save us from pride and arrogance
and forgive us when we get it wrong. And as we respond to leadership, save us Lord from
disgruntlement, from pride, from disaffection, from mixing things up between what is a biblical
mandate and what is a personal preference. And grant that Parkside Church may be held in the
palm of your hand, may be prepared to make any kind of move that doesn't violate your word,
and to do so with gladness and a submissive spirit and all for the express purpose that we might
see unbelieving people become committed followers of Jesus Christ and may the grace of the Lord Jesus
Christ and the love of God, the Father, and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit.
Rast upon and remain with each one today and forevermore. Amen.
of truth for life. For additional information about how you can support truth for life, please
visit us online at truthforlife.org. There you'll find free message downloads from Alistair
Begg, as well as links to our podcast, mobile apps, and other resources to help you grow in your
Christian faith. Again, the website is truthforlife.org. You can also follow us on Facebook and Twitter
to stay in touch with truth for life and Alistair Begg. Truth for life, where the learning is for living.
