The following message by Alistair Begg is made available by Truth for Life.
For more information, visit us online at truthforlife.org.
Can I invite you to take your Bibles and turn with me to the Gospel of Luke
and to the 10th chapter?
And we're going to read from the 25th verse.
On one occasion, an expert in the law stood up to test Jesus.
Teacher, he asked, what must I do to inherit eternal life?
What is written in the law? He replied, how do you read it?
He answered, love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul
and with all your strength and with all your mind
and love your neighbor as yourself.
You've answered correctly, Jesus replied, do this and you will live.
But he wanted to justify himself, so he asked Jesus, and who is my neighbor?
In reply, Jesus said, a man going down from Jerusalem to Jericho fell into the hands of robbers.
They stripped him of his clothes, beat him, and went away leaving him half dead.
A priest happened to be going down the same road, and when he saw the man,
he passed by on the other side.
So to a Levite, when he came to the place and saw him, passed by on the other side.
But as Samaritan, as he traveled, came where the man was,
and when he saw him, he took pity on him.
He went to him and bandaged his wounds, pouring on oil and wine.
Then he put the man on his own donkey, brought him to an end and took care of him.
The next day, he took out two silver coins and gave them to the innkeeper.
Look after him, he said, and when I return, I will reimburse you for any extra expense you may have.
Which of these three do you think was a neighbor to the man who fell into the hands of robbers?
The expert in the law replied, the one who had mercy on him.
Jesus told him, go and do likewise.
I want this evening to conclude our study from this morning.
I'm not planning on spending the rest of my life in first Thessalonians,
and I don't think you should plan to either.
And so we had one point remaining from this morning's message, and to it,
I wanted to return in order that we might bring completion to it.
We said that if there was to be peace and harmony amongst the people of God,
we would need to be those who were making sure that we were doing a number of things,
that we were those who were refusing to retaliate.
And at the same time, that we were those who were displaying kindness.
And it was to that that we, it is to that that we come this evening.
And also that we were those who were practicing patience.
And we left at this morning with the negative side of the positive command
with which he then concludes this little section.
Because this excertation to always try and be kind to each other and to everyone else
is the exact opposite of involving ourselves in retaliation.
This afternoon, in the course of reading, I came across a quote,
which emerged from New York, which I wish I'd had this morning,
but it's such a good quote that I thought I'd shared it this evening anyway,
because it fits.
And this is how the article begins, sweet, blissful, deeply satisfying revenge.
Of all the devices of spiteful human behavior, it must be quite the most fulfilling.
To forgive, forget, and turn the other cheek may be very noble, but not half as rewarding.
Now the art of precision retaliation has reached new heights
with one man's crusade against simple forgiveness
being translated into master class form.
Ever since mild mannered New Yorker, Philip Seldon, suffered at the hands of bullying classmates,
he has learned to exercise his rage with a startling array of retribution.
Now he is running classes which offer innumerable tactics to exact revenge.
And he even provides a special one off $75 service for individual advice.
Seldon wants the world to know why revenge is healthy
and how you too can be cruelly vindictive.
So if you think that the Bible does not speak into the culture of our day,
you're not reading about the culture of our day.
And here is an individual trying to make a living by suggesting to people
that they should respond to that innate tendency within themselves
to be as vengeful and revengeful as they possibly might be.
In direct contrast to that, says Paul,
we are to say no to that kind of vengefulness
and indeed we are to cultivate kindness.
Philip's paraphrases, it good should be your objective always
among yourselves and in the world at large.
It is the attitude of returning blessing for cursing
and of being actively friendly in the face of hostility.
And when we read this and we read the corresponding exhortations
in Paul's other letters and I could do again what I did this morning
on the flip side of revenge as it were,
we discover that what the Bible calls us to is to a spirit enabled commitment
not to intermittent bursts of Christian kindness
but to a steady ongoing commitment to a life of Christian life.
And this exercise of kindness is not to be circumscribed
by our personal preferences nor is it to be restricted
to those who fit our mold or who are in our group.
But rather when kindness is to be manifested in this way,
it is to be freely extended beyond the walls
of our own self-ordained categories.
And this, of course, is what the book of Titus showed us
with great fervency when we studied it months ago now.
Time and again, Paul says to Titus, for example, in Titus 2.10,
if you do these things, you will make the teaching
about God our Savior attractive.
He tells them in verse 14 of chapter 2 that they have been redeemed.
They have been made of people that are His very own
and who are eager to do what is good.
In the opening verses of the third chapter of Titus,
He makes His most prolonged statement concerning it,
remind the people to be subject to rulers and authorities,
to be obedient, to be ready to do whatever is good,
to slander no one, to be peaceable and considerate,
and to show true humility towards all men.
And just in case we're tempted to think that somehow or another,
we are relieved of that responsibility
that we don't have to treat people who are foolish
and disobedient, deceived and enslaved in that way.
He says, remember that we too were foolish,
disobedient, deceived and enslaved by all kinds of passions
and pleasures, we lived in malice and envy,
being hated and hating one another.
But when the kindness and love of God our Savior appeared,
He saved us not because of righteous things we had done,
but because of His mercy.
Now here is the biblical principle.
It was the kindness and love of God our Savior,
which was appearing to us and brought about a transformation
in our lives and says the Bible in that respect,
it ought to be kindness then,
which emerges from us into the lives of other people.
Certainly within our families, definitely within our churches,
and with great effectiveness amongst our peers and our colleagues.
Now it is one thing you see to get to grips
with the idea of Christian kindness in the world of theory,
it is quite another in practice.
And again, it's interesting that Paul and writing to Timothy
as a young pastor, for we must preach these sermons
first to ourselves before we preach them to anyone else,
he had something very directly to say to Timothy
about the need for patience if he was going to be a teacher.
And he also had said,
Timothy very directly concerning kindness.
The Lord servant must not quarrel.
Instead, he must be kind to everyone, kind to everyone.
Goodness gracious, why does it have to say everyone?
Why couldn't it say kind to some or kind to many
or kind even to most, but kind to everyone?
Yes, well the theory is fine, the practice is tough.
This is a fairly normal Sunday.
Letters stuck under the door that accused me
of starting the Third World War and little packages
given to me, giving me cards of expressions of kindness.
And a new tie from a kind lady who is obviously tired
of my, of my neckwear and wanted to reach out to me
in generosity.
It's a fairly normal day.
He passed right, I love you, here's a tie.
He passed her, here's a letter, read this and be humiliated.
I understand that.
And my natural reaction is to kiss the lady
that gave me the tie and respond differently
to whoever gave me the letter.
But I'm jammed up against kindness here and so are my colleagues
and frankly so are my colleagues.
And frankly so are you.
The Lord servant can go out and quarrel.
It's got to be kind to everyone.
Do you see why it would be nice to have a church
with 65 people in it?
I mean your odds are far greater of pulling it together
if you want to get 65 to deal with.
But a wandering group of some 2000 and kind to everyone?
Oh, you face the same challenge.
It's the exact same thing.
No special category for us.
Simply a reminder to Timothy.
If you're going to lead them, you're going to have to lead them.
The theory is one thing, the practice is another.
And that is why I read for you from the story of the good Samaritan.
Because if the story of the prodigal sons
is as great an expression of the kindness and patience of God,
then surely the story of the good Samaritan
is as wonderful an expression of human kindness
as any that Jesus ever told in the whole of the New Testament.
And I want to turn your attention there
in the moments that remain to me before these baptisms tonight.
I want us to think about kindness in relationship
to this story which Jesus told.
The expert in the law stands up to ask Jesus a trivializing question.
He's not really concerned to find out the answer.
He wants to test him.
Jesus turns the tables on him, asks him something of his own question.
The man responds by giving the standard and pad answer.
And Jesus said, fine, if you are going to do that,
I love the Lord your God with all your heart, all your soul,
all your mind, all your strength, and love your neighbor
as yourself, then that will be fine.
You go ahead and do that.
Now, if the man had quit at that point,
he might have got off all right.
He wanted to justify himself and so he asked a further question.
That's okay, he said, but could you just tell me who my neighbor is?
Who do I have to do this to?
That's always the question of a legalist.
Just tell me how many people I'm supposed to do this to.
And once I know who I'm supposed to do it to,
who my neighbor is, then I'll be able to do it for them
and I can exclude all the rest.
And that's the kind of answer he's hoping for.
You see, Christian kindness does not respond in one of these two ways.
Christian kindness is not expressed in the technique which says,
I don't do anybody any harm.
A kind of passive righteousness.
You see, that reaction was fine in relationship to these two characters.
The two religious fellows, if they were operating eating on the basis of,
kindness is expressed in the fight that I don't do anybody any harm.
They could look at the circumstances of the bloodied and beaten body of the man
by the sight of the road and they could say, hey, it's not my problem.
I didn't beat him up.
I didn't do anything to him.
I haven't done any harm to him at all.
They could have justified their non-involvement on the basis of the fight
that he might have been a decoy.
Maybe he wasn't really like that.
Maybe they just dressed him up like that.
Maybe they put him there.
And if they want to get him, someone would come and get them.
I don't want to get involved in this kind of thing, said the man,
pressing the accelerator and moving away from the horrible scene
as it unfolded on 7th Avenue.
I just don't do anybody any harm.
And also they could have justified it on the basis of the religious expressions.
It would be wrong if the man was dead for them to go near a corpse
because then they would be made ceremonially unclean,
which was taboo for them in the operation of their ministry
and so there would be a number of ways in which they could set it aside.
Their ethic took no account whatsoever of the sins of a mission,
which allowed them to ignore the man and to walk past without any sense of guilt.
Or they might have been operating on the basis of the old chestnut,
charity begins at home.
He said to yourself,
well, you know, I'm really a kind person.
And I'll tell you why am I kind person because I don't do anybody any harm.
And I'll tell you secondly how I show my kindness.
It begins at home.
I just take care of my own group.
I don't worry about anybody else.
That's kindness, isn't it?
Now remember, the man was asking, who's my neighbor?
The charity which begins at home scenario sets boundaries for the extent of God's command to love.
That was the concern of this man.
He figured that there were some people who were his neighbor, some people who weren't his neighbors,
and he just wanted to know who was who, so that he could do it for the ones he was supposed to do it for,
and then he could pass by all the ones that he didn't like.
All the people who gave him ties, he was going to be kind to.
All the people who sent him nasty letters, he was going to flat out ignore.
You see, we don't fully understand this because we've got the good Samaritan so firmly fixed in our minds.
To the Jewish mind of the first century, there was no such thing as a good Samaritan.
I remember in the Wild West days, hearing Cowboys say,
the only good Apache is a dead Apache.
You wouldn't be allowed to say that today, but they used to say it on the movies.
And that's exactly what the Jews used to say to one another.
The only good Samaritan that exists is a dead Samaritan.
Do you know that the Jews publicly prayed against the Samaritans in their synagogues?
Indeed, they cursed them in their synagogues.
They made daily petitions to God that no Samaritan would receive eternal life.
Rabbis told Jewish beggars to take no money from Samaritans because their money they told them was contaminated.
Now, you need to feed all of this into the background of your thinking when you realize that Jesus could have picked no more offensive hero than this character to put in the very middle of the story.
If the story had gone that a Jew was doing it for another Jew, that would have been okay.
Or if the story had gone that a Jew had somehow got out of himself and done it for a Samaritan, that might have been okay.
Or if the story had been that a Jewish layman came down the road and the layman did what the clergy didn't do, then that would kind of be one up for the Jewish layman.
But it was none of that.
The story goes that this guy who in the mind of the Jew was a mongrel, an absolute heretic, he was outclassing these two justifiable members of the priesthood by his activities.
And the man wants to know about kindness and about love.
The priest and the Levite, they stayed safe on the other side of the street riding on their little donkeys.
The Samaritan got vulnerable off his donkey in the blood and in the guts.
The priest and the Levite were cold and calculating as they determined that it was okay for them to go by on the other side of the road.
After all, they didn't do anybody any harm and they knew that charity begins at home.
The Samaritan was warm and compassionate.
The Jews reached the end of their journey with their saddlebags intact, no messy muck on their bottles of oil, no junk slubbered over their wine.
For the Samaritan, it was all broken and crushed and messed and mangled as a result of his desire to display human kindness.
And I want you to notice something very carefully that this man did what he did in complete ignorance of racial identity.
That's the point surely that Jesus is making in the story.
When in telling the story and anticipating what might happen, he has this character naked and unconscious.
For by his clothes you would be able to tell what side of the fence he came from but not if he's naked.
And by his accent you would be able to tell from when he came but not if he's unconscious.
And so the man without any concern for race or for accent, for background or for status steps up in a display of kindness.
You know the story well. Verse 36, Jesus forces the lawyer to answer his own question all over again.
The man says to him, who is my neighbor? Jesus tells the story.
Which of these three do you think was a neighbor to the man who fell into the hands of the robbers?
The expert in the law was forced to reply there in verse 3070. He couldn't get the words Samaritan out of his mouth.
But he can't deny the answer and he says the one who had mercy on him.
And Jesus told him go and do likewise.
Two two letter words for those of you who play Scrabble.
Two vital two letter words. Go and do. Go and do.
By means of these two words Jesus cuts through all of our high sounding generalities.
Because the fact of the matter is that genuine kindness doesn't ask what's the least I can do to fulfill my obligations.
You see a young man standing steady out outside of the window of a jeweler's store as he looks in at this glistening array of jewels and of rings and everything.
And it is clear that he's looking for one that he can pick out for the girl that he wants to be as bright.
And you stand beside him and you look at it and he's got his eyes on this huge thing and you say to him, you know, I don't think you can afford that.
But the fact of the matter is that love sweeps all those kind of financial considerations aside.
Kindness gives the coat as well as the cloak. Kindness goes the extra mile. Kindness turns the other cheek.
And kindness means something when it is expressed in individual terms.
Charlie Brown, you see, was good at generalizations. I love the world. He said it's Lucy. I can't stand.
He didn't realize that his love for the world was gauge one individual at a time.
The way people would know he loved the world was whether he loved Lucy or not.
Genuine kindness doesn't ask what this man asked. Who is my neighbor?
Genuine kindness asks, how can I express love to my neighbor?
Genuine kindness is about love's expression, not about love's evasion.
Genuine kindness makes extravagant gestures of self-sacrifice irrespective of race and color or creed.
And I say again to my own heart, as I said to each of you this morning, we live in a culture that has become so narcissistic, so preoccupied with our individualistic and materialistic priorities that nobody wants to get involved in anybody else's problem.
It is enough for us to say we didn't do anybody any harm.
You say, well, I wonder how the church is going to make an impact now at the end of the 20th century.
How do the church make an impact in 19th century Britain by going in the slums where no one else would go?
The Salvation Army was the Salvation Army.
In the midst of the bubonic plague, Christians were the ones who risked their lives to bring sucker and salvation to the needy.
And on the basis of that kindness created an immense platform for the preaching of the gospel.
And in the midst of our contemporary plagues, we are tempted with the lawyer to ask the question, who is my neighbor?
Hoping that we find out that my neighbor is the person I like, my neighbor is the person who likes me, my neighbor is the person who looks like me, sounds like me, is the same color as me.
And Jesus says, no, absolutely no.
One Latin American student in studying the story of the good Samaritan with his pastor coming to the conclusion of it all turned to his pastor and he said,
if only the church had told us this story and demonstrated to us this Jesus, many of my friends would never, never have become Marxists.
And young people today are looking for a cause with their alternative music and their alternative lifestyle and their alternative to what they see is so much that is bereft of any kind of kindness and compassion and meaning and usefulness,
while I say to you, young people, then, in the name of Jesus Christ and by the power of Jesus Christ, stand up and take the alternative route.
Stand up and live the alternative life. Stand up and go to our play gridden people with the love and kindness of the Lord Jesus.
We may be as articulate as we could possibly be in terms of theological precision.
We may be as sophisticated as we could possibly be in terms of our ability to put together our worship.
And we may be as irrelevant as we might ever be for failure to practice patience, renounce retaliation and cultivate genuine kindness.
Ask yourself, what are two things that I can determine to do in relationship to this?
In terms of kindness which actually goes beyond my comfort zone, in my family, phoning someone, a brother, a sister that we have long since given up on because of the way that they have gone, you know.
They're not like us anymore.
In the office, in the laboratory, in the school room, in the hospital, in the college, on the street, in the restaurant.
Show me a church that is committed to practicing patience, renouncing retaliation and cultivating kindness.
And I'll show you a church that will make an impact for Jesus Christ in any generation, not least of all, our own.
You've been listening to a message by Alistair Begg from Truth For Life and you're welcome to pass this sermon along to others, but please don't charge for it or alter it without written permission from Truth For Life.
This content has been provided to you free of charge by the generous supporters of Truth For Life.
For additional information about how you can support Truth For Life, please visit us online at truthforlife.org.
There you'll find free message downloads from Alistair Begg, as well as links to our podcast, mobile apps, and other resources to help you grow in your Christian faith.
Again, the website is truthforlife.org. You can also follow us on Facebook and Twitter to stay in touch with Truth For Life and Alistair Begg.
Truth For Life, where the learning is for living.
