The following message by Alistair Begg is made available by Truth for Life.
For more information, visit us online at truthforlife.org.
We began last Sunday evening to look together at these verses that begin in verse 1 of chapter 4.
Indeed, we began to look at verse 1 prior to last Sunday night,
and we saw that the instruction which Paul was giving was directly related to this whole issue
of learning to please God. And we reminded one another that we exist for God rather than that he
exists for us, and that our desire, once we have been set free from sin, is to live in a way that
would please him. We said that in an imaginary dialogue here through these eight verses,
the imaginary person may then in turn say to the Apostle Paul, and what exactly do you have in
mind in relationship to pleasing God? And in response to that, in the opening part of verse 3,
Paul directs his readers and does to this whole matter of sanctification or holiness.
If we imagine a further question, while Paul can you give to us some kind of concrete example
of what you have in mind in relationship to that, then we ended last time by noticing that his
reply was equally clear. He said, if you want to know what I have in mind, you should avoid
sexual immorality, or in the paraphrase, there needs to be in each of your lives a clean cut
with all sexual immorality. And we ended last time by saying that further poses the question,
how then is this to be accomplished? And Paul addresses that as we pick it up here at the beginning
of verse 4, each of you should learn to control his own body in a way that is holy and honourable,
or as Philip's paraphrases it, every one of you should learn to control his body,
keeping it pure and treating it with respect. Now we said last time that a variant translation
as in the revised standard version renders this opening section of verse 4 as follows
that each of you know how to take a wife for himself. And you will of course be interested to know
that theodore of Mapsuestia held this view, as did Augustine, as does John Stott,
as do a vast number of contemporary commentators. So obviously the view is not without warrant.
However, rather than dragging you into the etymology of it all, for what it's worth and for the
provoking of your own further study, let me simply say that I think that an NIV has got it right,
with all due deference to theodore of Mapsuestia. And indeed even if it has it wrong and that the
correct translation is wife, all that that does is specify and particularize the principle which
is contained here. For if in learning to control our own bodies, as man essentially, in the matter
of sexuality, there will be only one outlet for that and that will be within the framework
of marriage as we will see. What Paul is addressing here is what he has already said in Romans chapter 6
and you may like to turn to it, in verse 13, where he says, do not offer the parts of your body to
sin as instruments of wickedness, but rather offer yourselves to God as those who have been brought
from death to life and offer the parts of your body to him as instruments of righteousness,
for sin shall not be your master because you are not under law but under grace. Again the paraphrase,
do not then allow sin to establish any power over your mortal bodies in making you give way to your
lusts nor hand over your organs to be as it were weapons of evil for the devil's purposes,
but like men rescued from certain death, put yourselves in God's hands as weapons of good
for his own purposes. Very clear and straightforward statement concerning the fact that the redeeming
of our lives is a redeeming not simply of our souls which will live forever but the totality of who
and what we are. And therefore if our claim to have been radically changed by the power of the
Spirit of God does not put restraints upon and constrain the whole matter of human sexuality,
then we are actually living in a fantasy world and our statements are unmatched by our lifestyle.
Now although John start suggests that this should be read as a wife and with that we choose humbly
to disagree. He makes these two very helpful statements which are hard to pass up and I want to
pass them on to you. Anytime anybody makes two helpful statements or even one for that matter,
then I'm for one I'm ready to grab them and go with them and in this case these are very very helpful
and they will serve you well if you write these down in your Bible on the filial leaf of your
Bible in a notebook somewhere and you take them with you throughout all your days.
Statement number one, sex has a God-given context, namely heterosexual marriage.
Sex has a God-given context, namely heterosexual marriage.
It is therefore forbidden in every other context. Prior to marriage it is referred to as
fornication. Irrespective of whether you are engaged, irrespective of whether you really like
this girl, you really like this guy, you really think they're going to be your only one,
la la blah blah. That is absolutely verboten in scripture. It is referred to as fornication,
it is a violation of all of God's intended purpose for sex. It is also a violation in the
realm of adultery, namely the involvement sexually with somebody other than your marriage partner
after you have been married. It also means that homosexuality, which is an expression of sexuality,
which the Bible refers to as deviant, which is beyond marriage, also runs contrary to the clear
instruction of these verses here. Learning to control his own body within the framework of God's
intended purpose means one thing and one thing only, namely that the God-given context for
sexual fulfillment, sexual intercourse experienced and enjoyed is and only is, as the Bible,
within the framework of marriage. Now that immediately runs counter to the sex-crazed culture
in which Paul was living in Corinth and to which he was writing in Thessalonica, but it obviously
didn't don't him. It certainly is contrary to the crazy environment in which we are living
today. So much of what is offered up to us as wonderful literature or wonderful cinematography
is nothing other than a deviation from God's intended plan and purpose. Those of you who are
tempted to view this latest film involving Clint Eastwood and Merrill Streep,
Herald It is now a wonderful love story and a tremendous statement of mutual affection
between a man and a woman. If you have not researched it at all, you should know that it is an
expression of four days of adultery. And if you wish to go and watch that and allow Hollywood
to define that as love and fidelity and enjoyment and beauty, then so be it. But understand this,
it is directly contrary to what Paul is saying here. And the great subtlety of the evil one
is that he takes that which is poison and he wraps it in some of the most beautiful concoctions
and gildings so that the unsuspecting may eat of it and begin to die. Whatever we may want to
say about this, it is hard to deny the clarity of Paul's expression. The sexual expression of love
is within the God-given context of marriage. Well, what about single people, someone immediately
asks, and what a valid and vital question that is. Either someone who remains single, having never
been married or someone who has a result of divorce, now finds themselves single or as a result of
widowhood, is now living alone and does not have a context for this fulfillment of sexual love.
Well, hopefully John Stott has lived for almost 70 years now as a single man. And he adds a statement
concerning this which I noted and quote for you now. Speaking of single people and including
himself, he says, what about us? We too must accept this apostolic teaching, however hard it may seem,
as God's good purpose, both for us and for society. We shall not become a bundle of frustrations and
inhibitions if we embrace God's standard, but only if we rebel against it. Christ's yoke is easy,
provided we submit to it. It is possible for human sexual energy to be redirected both into a
affectionate relationship with friends of both sexes and into the loving service of others.
Multitudes of Christian singles, both men and women, can testify to this. And then very
tellingly, he adds this concluding sentence, alongside a natural loneliness, accompanied sometimes
by acute pain, we can find joyful, self-fulfillment in the self-giving service of God and of other people.
Now that's worth the tape, just for that quote, especially if you're wrestling with this issue
as a single person and it comes with greater impact, having been written by one who has lived for
virtually 70 years in sexual purity himself. So sex has a God-given context, namely heterosexual
marriage, and his second statement is that sex has a God-given style, namely honor and holiness
and purity. That's what he says in verse 5. He says in contrast to the heathen who do not know God
and who live in passionate lust, the style in relationship to the enjoyment of God's purposes in this
matter is one that is to be touched by and framed by all that is holy and honorable. Incidentally,
there is a direct correlation between not knowing God and all of the chaos that follows from that.
Paul is here referring not to the fact that somehow or another, these people are unfortunate enough
to be in this position, but rather he is referring to their blameworthy neglect of the revelation which
has been given to them. And to address that, we need to go as we go so many times to Romans chapter 1
and you can read it there at your leisure, but it says concerning man in verse 21 that although
they knew God, they neither glorified him as God nor gave thanks to him, but their thinking became
futile and their foolish hearts were darkened and so on and so on. And verse 24, therefore God gave
them over in the sinful desires of their hearts to sexual impurity. One of the great indicators that
a culture has turned its back on the knowledge of God that has been revealed is the sexual morass
into which it falls. And it is arguable just whether the framework of Thessalonica or Corinth
was any worse than that which we're dealing with in contemporary Cleveland this evening.
The application of honor and holiness in the matter of sexuality, in living impurity,
is applicable both to the single individual and is applicable within the framework of marriage
itself. And for that reason, the writer of the Hebrew says in Hebrews 13 and verse 4,
marriage should be honored by all and the marriage bed kept pure. We fall foul of this if we think
somehow or another that once we have entered into marriage, we've passed through the threshold
and are now beyond the realm in which a call to sexual purity would have any abiding and meaningful
implications for us. The fact of the matter is marriage is not a form of legalized lust.
Marriage as God intended is something that is marked by holiness and honor and that is to be part
of sexual fulfillment within marriage. There is a vast distinction between the desire to possess
somebody selfishly to one's own ends and the desire to unselfishly love and cherish and
respect and fulfill the needs and the longings of that individual. And honor and holiness and
purity are to be the very framework and context and style of love within this physical realm.
Back to our imaginary dialogue, while says somebody that is fairly clear, in fact it's very clear,
isn't though this matter of our sexuality just some personal and private concern,
well that takes us to verse 6. And in this matter no one should wrong his brother or take advantage
of him. Philips again, you cannot break this rule without in some way cheating your fellow men.
It is impossible to engage in sexual sin either in our minds or in actual physical terms without
cheating somebody else out of what is rightly theirs. And this addresses within the framework of
marriage all the issues of voyeurism and all the stupid counsel of stupid people who in trying to
resurrect, flailing and failing marriages suggest all kinds of godless activity that would be
able to restore and recreate and reenergize and renew. No, to engage in that kind of thing is to
rob another of what is theirs and theirs alone. The implication is very clear. Sexual sin is not
only an offense against God, against holiness, against honor, against my own body. Sexual sin is an
act of fraud against my brother or my sister because in engaging in that I take what is rightly theirs.
Prior to marriage it is referred to as fornication. C.S. Lewis puts it as graphically as any.
When he says if you want to know how much interest a man has when he says that he wants or needs a
woman watch him five minutes afterwards and then he says no one keeps the packet when they've
smoked the cigarettes. And as soon as men and women take that which God has planned and ordered
and planned and suggested and framed within the context and the honor and the purity that he
intends it is a violation not only against him and against ourselves but it is a violation
against those from whom we steal. And back to the dialogue. Well isn't God so loving that he'll
just overlook this kind of thing after all there's so much of it going on around us.
And listening to a tape of a church far from here this week the person addressing these
verses on the tape said that the people who conducted the pre-marital counseling within this
particular church well known significant evangelical church reported to the senior pastor that of
all the young couples interviewed prior to marriage 75% of them had already engaged in pre-marital
sex within the church. And we're certainly here at 50 and maybe higher. Do you think the Bible is
practical? Do you think the Bible speaks to the issues of our lives? It does. And what does it say?
Verse 6, B, the Lord will punish men for all such sins as we have already told you and warned you.
Paul has already addressed this issue. Why would he address the issue? Because it was such an
important issue. The people who were the believers in Thessalonica had come out of a dreadful background.
They had come out of a background where worship involved prostitution, where the contemporary
culture of their day was such that the only reason a man had a wife was to bring civility to his
existence and to make sure that there were meals and the children provided for. But all of his
dalliance and his enjoyment was to be found beyond that. And these people had come to faith in
Jesus Christ out of that kind of background. And so he says to them, you remember before I told you
about this and I warned you about this before and I'm writing to you about it again. I want you to
know how to please God. If you're going to please God, you need to live a holy life. If you want to
know what it means to live a holy life, you can't have made the issue of sexuality. And if you want
to know how to live in sexual fulfillment and freedom, then don't do it before you get married and
only live within the framework of marriage afterwards. We don't need any Tommy Rod about safe sex.
No sinful sex is safe. The issue is God's way and only his way.
And God will punish all who violate his commands. Now clearly that will happen on the day of
Pentecost. But it is already operative. That's the whole issue there in Romans chapter 1, is it not?
Part of the punishment of God upon a culture is that he gives people over to their sexual
deviences. Therefore God gave them over in the sinful desires of their hearts to sexual
impurity for the degrading of their bodies with one another. They exchanged the truth of God for
a lie. They worshipped and served created things rather than the creator. And because of this God
gave them over to shameful lusts. And that led them into the realm of homosexuality.
Men committed in decent acts with other men. Now notice this. And received in themselves the
Jew penalty for their perversion. Now you don't have to be a rocket scientist to track this.
What does God's words say about homosexuality? It says it is a perversion.
It is not an alternative lifestyle. It says that it brings punishment. And it says that even within
the bodies of these individuals themselves they received punishment for their perversion.
Love was these are solemn, sacred, vital, chilling, necessary, staggering statements.
The fact that they are all so incredibly staggering is an indication of the dire
straits in which our culture tonight is to be found. The final phrase in verse 6 makes it clear
that Paul, as I say, had to keep coming back to this issue. And so do we. Well, says the imaginary
dialogue. Can you give it to me in one sentence? Yes, says Paul, I can. Verse 7, God did not call us to
be impure but to live a holy life. People get all steamed up about what the call of God is in
their life. They go from person to person and tape the tape and bookstore to bookstore wondering
about what the call of God is in their life. The call of God in our life is really pretty straightforward.
You just need to take a concordance and look up call and look at all the things he's called us to.
He calls us to salvation. He calls us to sanctification, first Thessalonians 4. He calls us to
suffering in 1 Peter chapter 3. He calls us to service in Romans chapter 12. He calls us to sacrifice.
And I'm going to just tell you something in passing that if you and I begin to focus on the
clear things to which God has called us to salvation, to sacrifice, to suffering, to sanctification,
and to service, then many of the other things which are our preoccupation will actually begin to fall into
life. Well, is this not a little extreme? Not at all, says Paul, we're at verse 8, therefore, he who
rejects this instruction doesn't reject man but God who gives you his holy spirit.
Philips again, anyone who makes light of the matter is not making light of a man's ruling,
but of God's command. It is not for nothing that the Spirit God gives is called the Holy Spirit.
And the interesting thing in this is that it's in the present tense. He doesn't say,
therefore, he rejects this instruction does not reject a man but God who gave you his holy spirit.
It says, who gives you his Holy Spirit? In other words, in the call to sanctification,
he doesn't leave us on our own. He gives us his Holy Spirit. He enables us, moment by moment,
as we live in obedience to his word, he gives us the Holy Spirit and says, Paul, understand
that the Spirit that he gives us is holy. Therefore, when we disregard this instruction,
we disregard God. It's God who called us to sanctification and therefore, if I disregard the call,
I am not despising man but I am despising God himself. The prohibition is divine and the person
who treats sexual sin lightly is in effect treating God as one who can be disregarded.
Do you believe that many of us would do well to take the first few verses of first Thessalonians
4 and get away with them and get on our knees before them
and as singles and as teens cry to God for the grace necessary to live differently.
And some of us within the framework of our marriages need to recognize the awesome implications of
this instruction as it relates to honor and as it relates to holiness and as it relates to
rightness and which of us this evening does not find ourselves before these verses.
Structum
whether as a result of failure in the distant past or in the immediate present,
physical or mental. Beware the rising spirit of the Pharisee within your heart.
If you find yourself saying, I thank you that I am not as other men are and thank you Lord
that this is very interesting this stuff tonight but it doesn't seem to have much to do with me.
You are in deep difficulty and come again to 1 John 1. If we confess our sins he is faithful and
just to forgive our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness there is little doubt, dear ones
that in the arena of sexuality we declare much about the state of our Christian profession.
May God bring secret sins into the open in order that they might be forgiven and forsaken
and that we might go on to learn how to please him that is pray together.
Our God and our Father these are solemn words that we read. They crash against the current of our day.
They reverberate in our minds because they're so alien, so different from everything else that we hear,
that we read, that we see. Even the way in which we instruct our young folk is radically different
from this. Give us the grace Lord to be prepared to be thought totally nuts for the issue of moral purity,
for the preserving of our the lives of our children in purity for one another,
for the enhancing of our marriages as you have intended.
And for the ability to live within the realm of singleness despite loneliness and acute pain as
start says, in a way that ultimately declares you to be Lord overall.
May it be that in the baptisms which follow, in this graphic picture of men and women portraying
what it means to die to self and rise to Christ, that you will find an echo in each of our hearts,
saying a fresh to you, take my life and let it be consecrated Lord to the
take my hands and let them move at the impulse of thy love, for your glory, for our good,
and for the salvation of men who tonight are enslaved by passions and by lust.
For Jesus' sake, we ask it. Amen.
You can support Truth For Life. Please visit us online at truthforlife.org.
There you'll find free message downloads from Alistair Begg, as well as links to our podcast,
mobile apps, and other resources to help you grow in your Christian faith.
Again, the website is truthforlife.org. You can also follow us on Facebook and Twitter to stay
in touch with Truth For Life and Alistair Begg. Truth For Life, where the learning is for living.
