The following message by Alistair Begg is made available by Truth for Life.
For more information, visit us online at truthforlife.org.
I invite you to take your bibles and turn with me to 1 Thessalonians and chapter 4.
Brothers, we do not want you to be ignorant about those who fall asleep or to grieve like
the rest of men who have no hope.
We believe that Jesus died and rose again, and so we believe that God will bring with Jesus
those who have fallen asleep in Him.
According to the Lord's own Word, we tell you that we who are alive,
who are left till the coming of the Lord, will certainly not precede those who have fallen asleep.
For the Lord Himself will come down from heaven with a loud command,
with the voice of the Archangel and with the trumpet call of God,
and the dead in Christ will rise first.
After that, we who are still alive and are left will be caught up together with them in the clouds
to meet the Lord in the air, and so we will be with the Lord forever.
Therefore, encourage each other with these words.
Father, we pray that with our bibles open up on our laps, that you will do for us what we so
desperately need, and that is to take the voice of a mere man and the desires for
cohesive thought and breathe upon them by your spirit.
So the voice that we hear is the very voice of God through the written Word of God,
and that in hearing we might understand and understand we may obey.
To this end, we seek you in prayer in Jesus' name. Amen.
If you would care to turn to one other portion of Scripture, Acts chapter 17,
I want to take a moment to set in context the eventual direction of this message.
It may be that the setting in context will almost become the message in which case we know what
we have to look forward to, but, or be concerned about. But I want you to turn to
Acts 17 because it is in Acts 17 that we have the biblical record of the founding of the church
in Thessalonica. Paul and his companions had gone through Amphipolis and Apollonia,
and they came to Thessalonica, and on three successive Sabbaths, Paul took it upon himself
under the guidance of the Spirit of God to reason in the synagogue from the Scriptures concerning
the issues with which the members of the synagogue would be very familiar. His message centered on
the issue of the Messiah, and of course there has never been a Jewish boy or girl born
who has not lived with the notion of the Messiah, the question of his identity, the time of his
cunning, and so on, and the prophetic passages of the Old Testament were all pointing forward
to the Messiah. Some, like Paul prior to his conversion, had lived with the idea that the Messiah
was only going to be a dramatic and powerful conqueror. And consequently, when in the person of
Jesus Christ there came these claims to Messiah, those who already had in their minds an expectation
which did not include suffering, which did not include meekness, it only could involve majesty,
they therefore had no place for this Jesus. And so Paul, recognizing his challenge,
goes into the synagogue and he reasons with him, and he explains and he proves that the Christ
had to suffer and rise from the dead, that's verse three. His emphasis was, you know that there was
a Messiah who was to come, well he says, I want to show you that you have been missing the point
here in part and that the Messiah was to be also the suffering servant described in Isaiah's gospel
as well as the great reigning king described in other prophetic passages. And he labors to this end
to make it clear so that he could bring them to a point of understanding where they would be looking
at one another and saying essentially, you know, that makes sense to me. He doesn't seem to be making
anything up, he's quoting from our own scriptures, he's explaining it, we're reading it from the very
scrolls that we have and he is making clear that the Christ had to suffer and also that he had to
rise from the dead. And of course the Pharisees believed in a resurrection at the last day,
they were cloudy as to how it would work and the way in which he would unfold and now comes Paul,
who of course at the best of Jewish credentials, and he unfolds for them the scriptures and he
says now look the explanations of the Messiah find their fulfillment in one who would die and rise
again. So far so good. Then comes his punchline, verse 3b, this Jesus, I am proclaiming to you,
is the Christ. So far they were happy to go along with the progression of thought that the Messiah
had to suffer, die, rise again, but now comes the kicker. Jesus, whom I'm proclaiming, he says,
is the very Messiah we've just described. Now at that point there was an immediate division.
Luke tells us that some of the people were persuaded and they joined Paul and Silas as did a large
number of God-fearing Greeks, people who were surrounding the synagogue, they were folks who
were interested in religion, couldn't quite put it together. A number of them also believed
and were told that there were a few prominent women who became believers at this time.
Paul was in no doubt about what he was doing. Paul was not traveling the country giving religious
talks. Who needs another religious talk? Who even likes religious talks? Well, religious people
like religious talks presumably, but even they will weary of just more talk. Paul was not entering
into the synagogue simply to pronounce philosophical speculation because that becomes very worrisome.
No, Paul had an express purpose. His dramatic change on the Damascus road had made clear to him
that he was now a man with a mission and his mission was in no way uncertain. He was committed to
seeing unbelieving people, whether Jewish or Greek, whatever background, to see unbelieving people
become committed followers of Jesus Christ. And he wanted them to understand that becoming a
Christian is a profound, personal, and permanent change. Becoming a Christian is not as a result
of lineage, it's not as a result of being born in the right environment, although that may help,
it's not as a result of hanging around church buildings, although hopefully that would at
least point as in the right direction. But becoming a Christian is a profound, personal,
and permanent encounter with the risen Christ that leaves us in no doubt that what we once were,
we no longer are, and we have been made radically different. When he writes to the Thessalonians now,
these years after their beginning of the church, he writes to encourage them to commitment.
He writes to make it clear to them what he makes clear in the rest of his letters,
that if a person professes to be a Christian, that will be apparent in two particular ways. One,
it will be seen in what the individual believes, and two, it will be seen in how they behave.
To become a Christian is a mind-altering experience. Anyone who says it isn't,
it doesn't understand what it means to be a Christian. We are not to be afraid of that phrase,
although it has negative connotations in certain places, to become a Christian is to change our
mind about everything. It is, first of all, to change our mind about the problems of our lives.
Prior to that time, we may think that our problems are environmental, we may think that they're
superficial, we may think that there is a result of things that other people have done to us.
When we become a Christian, indeed, prior to becoming a Christian, we realize that the fundamental
problem facing us is the problem of our own rebellion against God, that we have not been doing
well in relationship to the Ten Commandments, and they are the expression of God's moral law,
and so we find ourselves to be in violation of the perfect law that God has established.
And so we have to change our mind then about our predicament, and until a man or a woman has
been brought to the place where they're prepared to change their mind about the predicament that
faces them, there is no reason for them ever to embrace Jesus as a Savior. Why ever would you
want a Savior if you have nothing from which to be saved? You could have an example, you could have
a teacher, you could have a guru, you could have a philosophical leader, but that would be
sufficient unless, of course, you realize that you were a sinner in which case at that point,
you and I would need a Savior. And you see, when the Bible is proclaimed in its effectiveness,
when Paul was proclaiming it to these people, they realized that their change would be, first of all,
in the way they think, and in the way they think about the world, in the way they think,
indeed, about everything. It will change the way you think about your garden, it will change the
way you think about the sunrise, it will change the way you think about the birds that sing,
it will change the way in which you think about taking vacations, it will totally change you.
If you doubt that, just get a good hymn book and read it, birds with gladder songs or flow,
and earth with deeper beauty shine, since I know, as now I know, I am his and he is mine. Before then,
I used to listen to the birds sing and say, that's nice. I wonder where they came from. I used to
look at the sky and say, what a nice sky, I'm so glad we have it, but now since he became my father
and I became his friend, I say, listen to my father's birds chirping and look at the glory of
my father's handiwork. It changes the way we think about things. We're no longer proud and smug
in our own creations. We're no longer drawing attention to our own advancements. We are now
bowing down before the wonder of who God is. It is a great change in belief. It is an
accompany in great change in behavior, a radical change in behavior. Indeed, if there is no change
in behavior, there's no reason to believe that there's been a change in belief. Be very, very
careful of somebody who tells you that they've changed their belief system, but you don't see it
in their behavior. Either they never understood it in the first place or they don't understand it now,
but when you change the way you think about things, you will change the way you do things.
It is inevitable, and you can think about it all kinds of ways. You think about it, for example,
in relationship to a golf swing, but we won't get into that. I remember we had a bad time of that
last time I was here. We'll just leave that aside. It will change. When you change your thinking,
you change your behavior. Now, the Thessalonians understood this. First Thessalonians chapter 1,
verse 8, Paul says to them, I want to encourage you by letting you know that the message of the
Lord is ringing out from you, not only in Macedonia and in a keyi, but your faith in God has become
known everywhere. Therefore, we do not need to say anything about it. I'll just stop there
for a moment and think. How did the world know that these Thessalonians were different?
They did not know as a result of seeing inside their heads. The change in belief would not become
apparent as a result of just sitting opposite somebody on a train. But if, not that I'm suggesting,
there were trains in Thessalonica, so make seeing of metaphors, but if we were to sit opposite that
individual and find that they behave a different way, then we would inquire as to what the difference
in their behavior is. For example, within a few miles of Thessalonica, there was one of the most
significant mountains both geographically and religiously in the whole of the then-known world.
It was Mount Olympus. And Mount Olympus was significant not only for his geographical
stature, but it was significant on account of the fact that it was the home of the Greek gods,
so believed. And so men and women within the framework of Thessalonica would be constantly
focusing on Mount Olympus, would be thinking and thanking the gods of Mount Olympus,
would be going off for picnics in the hope that the gods would not make it rain on them,
and so on. And it was part and parcel of their lives. To be born there was, if they came especially
from a Greek background, to be riddled with all of that thought concerning religion.
Now, let's imagine that a couple had come to faith in Jesus Christ. They had heard the word
that Paul had preached, and they had believed in him. And they were having one of their friends
from 100 miles away who were coming over to spend a couple of days with them in Thessalonica.
And they sent word to say that we're going to come. And they said, by the way,
when we come, we're looking forward to our annual picnic on the foothills of Mount Olympus.
So when the word came to Mr. Mrs. X concerning the impending visit of their friends and
concerning the prospect of the picnic on Mount Olympus, which of course had been something that
these two families had been doing all of their lives. They had done it before they had kids,
and then they did it when they had kids, and then they did it every time as more kids came along.
They were always having picnics on Mount Olympus. But now they came to faith in Jesus Christ,
now no, no, no, Olympus never meant anything to them in terms of the gods. They weren't
interested in going back up to the shrines. So they talked to one another, they said, what are we
going to do? They're going to think we're totally weird if we don't go up that hill with them,
you know? After all, we've gone there for years. And the father says, yeah, I know, but since we found
this other king called Jesus, since we embraced the Lordship and kingship of Christ,
we've never paid any attention to Mount Olympus, and after all, aren't we supposed to reach our
friends in our neighbor? Certainly, we're supposed to have them come to faith in the same Jesus
that we trust. The father says, the wife is, you know, I think if we go up there for that picnic,
we'll be able to cover our bases, but we're going to confuse the issues of Jesus.
And they must have wrestled back and forth, and eventually the people come into town.
Hey, how you doing? Wonderful. Come on in. Have a cup of tea, the usual thing. Sit around,
talking about things, and then, of course, the question. So when's the picnic?
Same time as usual. Wife looks at husband, husband looks at wife. Who's the bravest?
Wife goes first, as usual. Well, you know, we were thinking we weren't going to have the picnic
this time. At least we're going to have a picnic, but we're not going up on Mount Olympus. What?
But we've just had another little kid, and we haven't ever taken our kid up to the shrine of the
God of such and such, and we were looking forward to that. Yeah, we, yeah, I know. But we wanted to
talk to you about that, about those shrines and gods, and, you know, we'll get around to it,
as you're here for what? No, no, no, no. Tell me now, what's the deal?
Well, well, we see, if you ever heard of Jesus of Nazareth, and then it would go from there.
Now, let's cut to the bedroom in the evening when the mother and father, who came, the visiting
party came. They're now lying in their beds, looking up at the ceiling, making maps with a cracks,
and they're lying, and they're saying to themselves, well, here we are. Same place as last time,
but goodness, gracious, there's something really weird going on in here. I mean, can you believe,
can you believe Sadie and George? No picnic? No mountain Olympus? No foreign gods? No shrines?
And the wife says, yeah, did you hear what they were actually saying? You know, they're actually
claiming that this Jesus of Nazareth has been dead for a while. He's coming back.
Yes, his husband, you know, it would be bad enough if all they were saying was, we're into Jesus.
Now, let's go for the picnic. It'd be bad enough if they were saying, you know, we're interested
in the teachings of Jesus. He was a guru and he was a great guy. That would be bad enough,
but they're absolutely gone, totally nuts about this. They're saying that Jesus not only died,
but he rose from the dead, and not only that he rose from the dead, but he's actually coming back.
Oh, let's go to sleep. We'll deal with it in the morning.
Now, I don't think that's a far-fetched illustration.
And that's what's supposed to happen now. When a person becomes a Christian, that person is
radically changed. Now, for those of us who are brought up in Christian homes and wonder about
this and say, well, you know, I haven't been living long enough to be like a hell's angel in
everything and go worship in his shrines. What's supposed to happen to me? Let me tell you what's
happened to you. If God in His grace has reached out to you in your tender life, understand this,
you have been saved from a lot of stuff, and it will become increasingly apparent to you the
older you get. Some are saved out of a lot of stuff, and if you talk with them, they surely would
love to have been saved from it rather than out of it. But whether you were saved from it in
prospect or out of it in reality, it is a radical change. Now, I want to say to you that the absence
of such teaching has not only led people to spurious professions of faith in Jesus Christ,
but confuses the watching world about what it means to believe in Jesus Christ.
Because if what we present to people is this, listen, all that it means to become a Christian
is you just do this belief thing. It's a kind of esoteric thing. You trust Jesus.
Well, what does that mean? Well, I don't really know what it means, but you just do that.
And then you can do what you like. I mean, you go back up Olympus, you can go to the same movies,
you can listen to the same music, you can hang with the same friends, you can do all the same stuff.
I mean, it doesn't matter. All you do is you just plug in and then you just go with a flow.
And there's enough a lot of people who apparently plugged in and are going with a flow,
and they don't know who in the world they are, what they are, and nobody knows what to do with them.
The difference in the difficulty is that someone never told them, listen, new life, new lifestyle.
Before you got married, ladies, you had a certain name. When you got married, you got another name.
You got a change of name and a change of identity.
Your husband loves you exclusively or should demands all of your affections, share a little
with the children and your parents, but by and large, all of your affections, all of your time,
all of your devotion, and rightly so. It's the expulsive power of a new affection.
The old guys, the old cronies, the old haunts, the old places, they're gone. Why? Because I have a
relationship with this individual. It would be a strange husband who said, now, look, I want you
to sign here, and I want you to become my wife, but I want you also to know you can do what you like,
anytime you like, with anyone you want, anywhere you want. You look at the guy and say, I don't
think there's a marriage. I don't know what it is, but I don't think there's a marriage,
and you would be right. It's not a marriage. Let me tell you, young people, you commit your life
to Jesus Christ. You just signed up for a holy life. You just signed up for a different life.
You signed up for a radical change. There must be a change in your behavior. There must be a change
that issues from the way you think. Previously, you thought about things in a certain way,
and now you think differently, and the reason you think differently is because the Spirit of God
has come to live within your life, and like the people there in Thessalonica, they turned from
the lifeless idols to the worship of the living God, and their friends said they no longer worship,
but those shrines has got something to do with Jesus I haven't had time to ask them.
Oh, you say, well, that's Thessalonica. Two thousand years ago, this is Cleveland. Let me tell you
something. Cleveland is full of idols. Contemporary Western culture is full of idols. People have come
out of a week of worshipping idols, worshipping money, worshipping power, worshipping fame, work,
sport, entertainment, food, alcohol, drugs, sex. There are at least half a dozen magazines
dedicated to every idol that is in offer. Just go in Borders bookstore and drown yourself
under the magazine racks, and if you look at them, they are the preoccupations of our culture.
They are idols. Now, if Jesus Christ cannot break the bondage of those idols,
then he is less than the person he claimed to be, but in the case of these Thessalonians,
he broke the bondage for them. They were once always there, now they're over here,
and people said, why is that? And they were unashamed, a radical shift to take in place
on account of their discovery of the gospel and of the grace of God. Biblical standards of behavior
are absolutely vital. So it is that to suggest that Christianity is a private,
internal experience which matters a little bit to us and maybe interesting to others
is to misunderstand the New Testament. These Thessalonians were committed to a life that is
pleasing God, and that's why in chapter 4 Paul says, we instructed you how to live in order to please
God. You see, they're no longer like the rest. Let's finally get to the verses that we're supposed
to be studying, verse 13. He says, brothers, we don't want you to be ignorant about those who fall
asleep or to grieve like the rest of men. Just look at that little phrase, like the rest of men.
That is an obvious distinction, right? It's a distinction between the rest of men and them.
Who are the rest of men? And where are they once like the rest of men? Absolutely. That's the point.
They were once like the rest of men, and the rest of men were without hope and without God in the
world. That's what Paul says in Ephesians. He says, you were formerly without hope and without God.
Philip's paraphrases it in this way. You were without Christ. You were utter strangers to God's
community. You had nothing to look forward to and no God to whom you could turn. That's a picture
of the rest of men. The rest of men this morning in contemporary culture have got nothing to
look forward to and no God to turn to. And that's why hopelessness so pervades our generation.
That's why after all the anticipation and all the excitement of the 60s that you've got to
admit it's getting better and it didn't get better, we went into the 70s trying to fix what we
broke in the 60s. We went in the 80s to try and fix the 70s and now the children of the 90s
have grown up with no basis of belief whatsoever and they're checking out faster than we can ever
stop them. Why? Because they have no God to whom they might turn and they have nothing to look
forward to. Do you realize that's the average teenage kid in America? No God to whom they may turn
and nothing to look forward to? And so they've got to fill their life with something.
And that's why at the end of the week on Friday the radio stations, all the DJs are always
hyping it up while it's a weekend. Oh, we're looking forward to the weekend. You get them on Monday
tomorrow morning, June 530. Oh, well, I've just had my 15th cup of coffee trying to get started.
What a drag, man. Monday. Don't worry. Don't worry. It's already 630. We've already been through
an hour of it. We'll get it hyped up and then they find little things to help you. You're driving
into your car. There's nowhere to go. Nothing to look forward to. And then it says channel 43,
place favorites. Is it? Oh, yeah, channel 43. Fearless. Is it? Oh, Hogan's heroes tonight.
He had nine o'clock. He said, I know nothing. He said, yeah, yeah, I like, I like Hogan's heroes.
That gives me something to look forward to. Yeah, okay. So you make your calls, cold calls,
hot calls, medium calls. And you say, you know what? I'll get some peanuts and sit down. I'll watch
that stupid dumb program and then I'll check out and then I'll have got rid of Monday.
And then I'll give Tuesday a shot. See the great sense of utter emptiness and alienation.
And I don't care what level you're living at. I don't care whether you fly executive jets.
I don't care whether you make a million and a half every month. Let me tell you the more I live and
move and breathe in this wonderful country. It doesn't matter how many zeros are at the end of
these guys' paychecks. They are without anything to look forward to and no God to whom they can turn.
And it is the responsibility of the Christians so to behave our belief that they will be
caused to say, excuse me, could you come into my office and close the door? Not so that they might
fire you, but so that they might say, I noticed there's something different about you.
I had a wonderful testimony just this week from one of the streets in Seoul and I asked a young man,
I said, and how did you come to faith in Jesus Christ? He said, we noticed that the couple across
the road had gone weird on us. I said, what do you mean gone weird on you? He said, well,
we used to do a lot of things as a family. We go over and do things in the backyard and everything
else. And we had the father said, they'll run a dirty jokes that could just knock your socks off
and suddenly this couple stopped laughing at the jokes. That was the first sign we had.
Now why did they stop laughing at the jokes? Because the change of belief brings a change in behavior.
And he said, eventually, they remained so nice, such wonderful neighbors that when we were having
one of these backyard events, I asked one of the kids, what's the deal? Then the boy told me
that he had trusted in Jesus Christ as a Savior. And I said to him, why don't you tell me more about
that? And he told me more about that. And I trusted in Christ. And my brother asked me and I told my
brother and my mother did the same thing and my father came last. And the whole family today
has had a profound, personal, permanent change as a result of the enroads of discovering a radical
new belief. In the context of the world in which Paul was writing, you see, the hopelessness was
revealed in the most obvious of ways. The tombstones revealed emptiness. But down in the catacombs,
in the dungeons where the Christians were being kept for or durfs for the lions,
the story was different. So up on the high street, you had all these tombstones,
the basically said, we're without God and without hope in the world. And then you went down into
the catacombs where the Christians had been imprisoned ready for their imminent death. And you
found scrolled on the walls. Jesus is coming back. Jesus is alive. We're looking forward to seeing Jesus.
Our world today with all of its technological progress, all of its Pentium chip advances, all of
its Windows 95 is unable to address the real software issues. Because the real software issue
is the software issue of the human heart. And they're not a computer program that can answer
the cries of the human heart. America might be online with itself, but it's out of line with God.
And to those of us who've been put online with Jesus Christ has been given the responsibility
of going to those who are out of line with God and telling them about this same Jesus
and that he's definitely coming back. Do you believe he's coming back?
Lord Shafesbury, one of the prime social movers in Great Britain, in an earlier generation said,
I do not think that in the last 40 years I have lived one conscious hour that was not influenced
by the thought of the return of Jesus Christ. One of the key politicians of the day,
I haven't lived one conscious hour, he says, without the thought of the return of Jesus, it absolutely
fired him. Soon and very soon we're going to see the King. Soon the role will be called up
Yonder. They'll call your name tomorrow in various contexts, some of you go back to school,
they'll get you in a room, they'll take one of those computer printouts, they're going to read
the list, they're going to call your name and see if you answer. There's a day coming when God
is going to read the list, he's going to call the names. If your name's there, fine. If not,
you got a problem. See, I like to know the end of the story, don't you? I like to
revert, I like to back my car into parking spaces. I don't like these signs, nose in only.
I know what it's about, seemingly it's to speed up the progress of getting you in
and consequently to slow up the process of getting you out. So as long as no one's looking I always
back in because I'm thinking about leaving when I'm arriving. Let me tell you something,
if you haven't started thinking about leaving, checking out life, you're not in any position to
face Monday. You got to get your exit planned so that you can enjoy your time at the game.
You got your exit planned? So you got to know what the downside risk is in going into an
investment, don't you? What's the worst possible scenario here? How much do I lose on this deal?
I mean, what if it goes belly up? What happens to me? Let's find out what the eventuality is
before we all chip in. You guys do that all the time. Well, if you've done that with life,
do you know what the downside risk is of continuing to disbelieve in Jesus Christ?
The Bible says it's eternity in hell. That's quite a downside risk.
And yet some remain stubborn in our unbelief, unprepared to face the challenge.
Now all of that by way of introduction to the sermon which we'll follow next Sunday.
Let me make some concluding statements to the longest introduction for a while.
People are asking, where did I come from? Where am I heading? What will happen when I die?
And how is this all going to end? They are. They may not be asking you just in that way,
but they drive in their cars and they every so often say to themselves, when this guy comes really
dark and it's three o'clock in the afternoon, you can one of these dreadful thunderstorms. Some
bright spots bound to say, I think it's the end of the world. And everybody laughs, a kind of nervous
laugh, hoping of course that it isn't. And wondering how it will be.
Some have decided that history is circular. It's not linear that like the Hindus, we're just coming
around and around and around. If history is linear and as a point of beginning and a point of
conclusion to which we're moving as the Bible says it does, then we can look back to the beginning
and we can look forward to the conclusion. And here it says that Jesus who died, who was buried,
who was raised alive is coming again. Now for some of you I recognize that in speaking to your
friends until you deal with the issues of the death and the resurrection of Jesus, you're not
going to be able to deal with his return. And that is why we labored so hard in 1 Corinthians 15
to provide material on the resurrection of Jesus Christ because it is such a pivotal doctrine. Paul
says because we believe that Jesus died and rose again and so we believe he's coming again.
See because anybody's got every right to say to us, oh how do you know it's just not a pipe dream?
How do you know it's not just something you dreamt up? After all life is tough and then you die
and so the Christians just made it up, piling the sky when you die and you could need to have
something to look forward to. You mentioned that earlier and so you got this idea that Jesus
is coming back again. Where do you take that up from? That's a good question. What do you say the
person who says that? Well that's just my belief. The person says, well guess what? It's just not my
belief. So it says, well it's my belief over here. So here's the question. Does belief make it so
or is truth the basis of belief? We were reading in a hamburger joint in Santa Barbara last week
the waitresses were an interesting group. Every so often they grabbed the ketchup bottles
and used them as microphones, dummy microphones and then they sang to the music that was playing
in the background. In the course of engaging them in conversation, we asked one of the girls,
where do you study? Presumably she studied. I mean we felt sorry for her. We hope she wasn't
simply spending the rest of our life grabbing ketchup bottles and saying you know
doing that kind of stuff and she said that she was a student at the University of California
in Santa Barbara and I said what are you studying? She said well I'm studying philosophy. I said
what do you want to be? She said I actually want to be a professor of philosophy. I said
professor of philosophy that pretends that ketchup bottles are microphones and things in a hamburger
joint. She says yeah I suppose you know anything for a bark. So I said to her she was coming back
forth I said hey by the way Samantha what do you think of the idea of objective absolute truth?
She said I think it's a crazy idea. She went back somewhere else. She came back again I said hey
Samantha is there anyone on your faculty that would believe in objective absolute truth? She thought
for a while she said well you know there's one guy who's really really really weird way out. I think
he might. She said but nobody dies. Now so I said to her I said you know do you know that I'm
seated in the heavenly places for the Christ Jesus? No I didn't you know I didn't.
I said to her I said we got a lot of discussions to have we are some major discussions here
and so we started at first principles the whole idea of conscience the whole idea of an innate
awareness of morality where does it come from and everything so that we might eventually get to
the business and say do you ever consider the thought that Jesus of Nazareth might be the
person he claimed to be? That's starting point. No I never. Why would I ever? How would I ever go
about considering that? Well the gospel of John would be a help to you because John said these
things were written that you might believe and that by believing you might have life in his name
and we're going to have to talk about the fact that Jesus of Nazareth died and he died for an express
purpose. He died on the basis of sin and that means you and me therefore we got a problem
and that he was risen from the dead and that's a complete mind-blower and that'll take time
and here's the real pairs to resistance he's coming back again personally visibly bodily it's
going to be dramatic it's going to be decisive it's going to be like lightning across the sky
can you just see her picking up the ketchup bottle saying excuse me there's a whole lot of she can
going on growing up because the fact of the matter is that the culture into which you and I are
returning tomorrow morning and understand this clearly you can talk to them and they might listen
but nothing will make a greater impact than when your business buddies your college roommates
your high school friends your bridge playing partners see that you have turned from idols
to serve the living God true belief issues in transformed behavior new life your lifestyle
let's pause just in a moment of prayer I could probably call out the sermon that might have been
and I recognize that it's not where we thought we would go but it is where we've been
some of you today have never never known that profound and personal and permanent change
we love for the opportunity to talk to you about it we are our room off to my right here through
the double doors is there that we might be able to give you literature talk with you answer some
questions and perhaps lead you to this great and momentous change and for those of us who profess
to be changed but whose behavior is less than it might be we know Lord that you are speaking to
as concerning that and as we think of this afternoon and the opportunities of telling others
we pray that the thought of the soon return of Jesus Christ may produce within us a desire to
live a holy life and a genuine desire to see our friends and our neighbors become committed
followers of Jesus Christ lift our gaze to the time when Christ will come and take us home
for Jesus sake we ask it amen
you've been listening to a message by Alistair Begg from Truth for Life and you're welcome to pass
this sermon long to others but please don't charge for it or alter it without written permission
from truth for life this content has been provided to you free of charge by the generous
supporters of truth for life for additional information about how you can support truth for life
please visit us online at truthforlife.org there you'll find free message downloads from Alistair Begg
as well as links to our podcast mobile apps and other resources to help you grow in your Christian
faith again the website is truthforlife.org you can also follow us on Facebook and Twitter to stay
in touch with truth for life and Alistair Begg truth for life where the learning is for living
