The following message by Alistair Begg is made available by Truth For Life.
For more information, visit us online at truthforlife.org.
Last time in beginning this section, we noted the foundation upon which Paul was building
the conviction and expectation of the return of the Lord Jesus Christ.
And that there, in verse 14, we believe that Jesus died and rose again.
This we took time to emphasize is the very cornerstone of Christian truth and belief.
And it is upon this very platform that all of the rest is grounded and the superstructure is
built. That for the believer to profess the expectation of the return of Jesus Christ
is not simply to engage in idle speculation, nor to build some kind of flimsy superstructure
of philosophical meanderings, but it is to be grounded on these great historical
verities. And we made much of the fact that Christianity is historical in its basis,
that it is not ultimately enough to say, you ask me how I know he lives.
He lives within my heart because there would be many people who might make all kinds of
subjective claims concerning truth, but it is important ultimately to be able to say to the
agnostic mind, you must examine the evidence, you must consider the claims. For here is the foundation.
The conviction which we said emerged from the foundation is also there in verse 14,
since we believe that Jesus died and rose again. So then we believe that God will bring with
Jesus those who have fallen asleep in him. In other words, the platform of biblical doctrine
is the springboard for biblical hope. Why says somebody do you believe that Jesus is going to come
back? Well, we answer because he died and he was raised from the dead. And since he was raised
from the dead as the first fruits of those who have fallen asleep, he will in turn bring with him
those who have fallen asleep in him. And again, last time we made much of the fact that one of the
things that distinguishes the believer from the unbeliever in our day is that the unbeliever
has ultimately nothing to look forward to and no God to whom they might turn. Whereas the believer
has everything to look forward to insofar as they have the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ
to whom they might turn. Now, we left it at that point, saying that we would come back
to the nature of the expectation, which is the Christians, and to this we come having
built it further in verse 15, according to the Lord's own Word. We tell you that we who are still alive
and who are left to the coming of the Lord will certainly not precede those who have fallen asleep
for the Lord himself will come down. Now, I want this morning to try and summarize the expectation
of believing faith by using five words. The words of these, you need to note them, we'll come to them
in turn. But first of all, to notice the return, then the resurrection, then the rapture, then the
reunion and then the responsibility. At the first four of these words, I gleaned from John's
thought who summarized this so healthfully that when I read his summary, I couldn't improve upon it
and so I was forced to use it or to provide you with a less than healthful summary. So you had to
be grateful for one that I'm using it and two that I'm honest enough to admit it. And he cannot
be held responsible for the meat that goes around the bones, however. First of all, then the issue
of the return of Jesus Christ, verse 16, summarized in the paraphrase of J.B. Phillips in this way.
One word of command, one shout from the archangel, one blast from the trumpet and the Lord himself
will come down from heaven. The word which is used here is the word perusia. Some of you may have
come across this word, the perusia. And you said to yourself, I wonder what it is, I wonder what it
means and where it comes from. Well, it is referring to the coming, the arrival or the presence
of the Lord Jesus. And where you read the word, the perusia, you are reading about the coming,
the return expressly of Jesus. It was not an unfamiliar word for Paul's early readers,
because it was the word that would be used to designate the expectation of the arrival of some
big dignitary. And if someone was coming into town, an emperor or a distinguished person,
the word was going around that there was to be a perusia. And the identifiable feature of it
was to be the grandeur and the expectation and the definite and decisive nature of it.
And so Paul picks up this word and he says, I want you to understand that there is nothing vague,
there's nothing uncertain, there's nothing ultimately cloudy concerning this event towards which
the church looks. The return of Jesus Christ is to be decisive and it is to be definite. When we
think of the return of Jesus, we're not thinking of an issue that somehow or another,
you have to go ferreting around and looking for, picking up stones and boulders as it were,
a biblical truth in the hope that we may discover it somewhere. No, the very fact of the return of
Jesus is replete throughout the whole of the New Testament. And if you doubt this, you need only
to scan the gospel records. For example, in Matthew's gospel, you find him giving great emphasis to it
in the 24th chapter. And you will do well to study chapter 24 and also into 25.
And the words of Matthew, for example, in verse 26, or if anyone tells you, there he is
out in the desert, do not go out, or here he is in the inner rooms, do not believe it,
because he says it's going to be a cosmic event, it's going to be a universal event,
it's not going to be a localized event. I remember in the 70s in London, there was a chap who was
wandering around, who had long blonde hair, wore a white robe, and sometimes had a large walking
stick. And he used to be in Regent Street, he was down on Piccadilly Circus, he was everywhere,
and he was announcing the fact that he was Jesus and he was back. And there were some people who
were taking time to wonder about this. Is he really back? And the answer was, he's flat out not back.
People said, well, how do you know? I mean, after all, he seems to be a nice kind of person,
and he's not doing anything bad, and he seems to have some of the jargon to proclaim.
Well, the answer is Matthew, chapter 24 and verse 25. If somebody says he's at Piccadilly Circus,
don't go down to Piccadilly Circus, he's not there. If somebody says he's up at Marble Arts,
don't go to Marble Arts, he's not there. Why? Because when he comes, it will not be localized,
it will be dramatic, and it will be universal. Interestingly, and often, in passing, in this
weekend of rock and roll, in one of the biographies of Paul McCartney, it mentions the fact that this
character, whom I met on a number of occasions, showed up at Paul McCartney's front door in St. John's
Wood, rang the front door bell, McCartney answered the door, said, hello, the chap said, I am Jesus.
So McCartney said, you are, come in. Brought him in, made him a cup of tea, and talked with him.
And then he was going to Abbey Road Studios to record, let it be. And so he said to the chap,
would you like to come to the recording? So he took this blonde-haired guy with a white robe
and his walking stick to the Abbey Road Studios, and introduced him to John Lennon,
John Lennon, and Harrison, and Ringo Starr, and said, guys, this is Jesus, and he was over at my
house for a cup of tea. And the biographer says, and so, something like, and so this was the closest
the Beatles ever came to meeting Jesus. But he wasn't remotely related to Jesus. And there will
be many of these Jesus as walk upon the stage of human history. Don't be deceived by them. They are
the spirit of the Antichrist, which has gone out into the world. When somebody says he's in the
desert, let's go there. He's over here. Let's go there. Don't even move. You don't need to.
That's what Matthew 24 is largely about when you go into Mark's Gospel, Read Mark 13. You go into
Luke's Gospel, Read 21. You go to John's Gospel, Read John 14. John 14, the opening verses,
were not written for funeral services. They read it, funeral services, and that's okay.
But they were not written to comfort the dead and the dying and the bereaved. They were written
to encourage these believers to understand that when Jesus went away, he was coming back.
He looked into their eyes, and he saw that there was a dimming of their expectations,
that they had begun to fasten on the fact that this was not going to end up the way they had
anticipated. And Jesus says, hey, don't let your hearts be troubled. You believe in God,
believe also in me and my father's house, or many rooms, if it weren't so I would have told you.
I'm going to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come
again and receive you unto myself, to where I am there, you may be also, and you know the way to
the place where I'm going. And good old Thomas gives voice to what no one else has prepared,
to give voice to the kind of kid who in the class asks the question that you're hoping somebody will
ask, because you haven't got a clue what's going on. So Thomas launches out, he says, Lord, we don't
know where you're going. And how can we know the way? And Jesus said, I am the way, the truth,
and the life, and no one comes to the Father but by me. You find the same thing in the acts of
the apostles when following the ascension of the Lord Jesus, the angel comes and the people are
standing looking up. Jesus haven't been taken up before their very eyes and a cloud has now
hit them from their sight. Acts chapter 1 verse 9. And they were looking intently up into the
sky as he was going. You bet your life they were. When suddenly two men dressed in whites to
beside them, men of Galilee, they said, why do you stand here looking into the sky?
Now that was to cut them on the hawk for just a moment. My answer would have been, what do you mean
why do we stand here looking into the sky? Did you see this? Did you miss this? Jesus was here and
he took off. And last we saw of him, he was caught up into that cloud. But their question you see
was directly related to the fact to remind the church that its responsibility is not to be
focused in the matters of curiosity, but the responsibility of the church is to be focused on
the matters of certainty, namely the same Jesus who has been taken from you into heaven will come
back in the same way you have seen him go into heaven. That's the main thing. That's the plain
thing. That is the expression concerning the return of Jesus Christ. His coming is going to be
climactic for existence as we know it. The coming of Jesus will transcend all events in time and space.
We cannot even begin to conceive of what it will be like. All of our best approximations concerning
computer link ups and worldwide television exposure and all these things. I don't think we've
got an inkling of what it will be like. I think he's going to introduce a whole new deal.
There's nothing being seen like it. There will be nothing seen after it. And Gates and
Windows 95 is a totally representation of a marketing plan compared to what Jesus is going to do
in his return. We have not seen. I has not seen neither his ear heard neither as it entered into
the heart of man. The things that God has prepared for them that love him. What's it going to
be? The Lord himself will come down from heaven with a loud command, the voice of the archangel,
and with the trumpet call of God. There's going to be a loud shout used of the charioteer to his
horses. I never was on a chariot. The closest I came was watching the movie Ben Hur. And I recall
then that the charioteer spoke to the horses and not like, oh, good, good, good. Come on,
come on, horsey. Oh, come on. No, nothing like that. Traumatic, decisive, move it. Let's go.
The people think that Jesus is going to come back with some little whimper somewhere in a corner.
They are flat out wrong. When he sounds out that voice, the dead will hear it, he says.
It will be a magnificent cosmic event. The world does not believe because that is the world has
been blinded. If their minds have been blinded by the God of this age, the prince of the power of
the age, the prince of the power of the of the air, Ephesians 2, 2. But the fact that man and his
blindness cannot see it, no more denies the reality of it than a man and his blindness being unable
to see the light of the sun denies the reality of the sunlight. The voice will be that of a charioteer
to his horses, a hunter to his hounds, the cry of a captain to the roars in the galley slave
of a great ocean going vessel of Paul's day. The voice of a commander to his soldiers.
It is to be a voice of authority. It is to be a voice of urgency and it will be accompanied
by this great trumpet blast and call of God. Now when we begin to just peel back the pages of
Scripture in relationship to the return of Jesus Christ, we can go in so many different directions.
The letter may remind you of what I always try to remind you of, namely that the main things
are the plain things and the plain things are the main things. And when we take the main
plain expressions of the return of Jesus, we can say categorically that the return of Jesus
will be dramatic, Matthew 24 once again, and verse 30. Now we just quote it for you.
Some of them may ask you and you'll be able to tell them at that time the sign of the son of
man will appear in the sky and all the nations of the earth will mourn. They will see the son of man
coming on the clouds of the sky with great power and with great glory. And he will send his angels
with a loud trumpet call. There you have the trumpet and they will gather his elect from the
four winds from one end of the heavens to the other. Now the human language is beggared before
an ability to try and encapsulate in a sentence or two the magnificence and the grandeur of this
dramatic event. You have the same approximation to it in Revelation and in chapter 1 and in verse 7.
Luke, he is coming with the clouds and every eye will see him, even those who pierced him,
and all the peoples of the earth will mourn because of him so shall it be. Amen.
The Apostle John anticipating this, giving encouragement to the beleaguered believers of the
first century who are having their heads torn off, who are being thrown to the lions,
who are being buffeted by all kinds of hatred, vented against them. The book of Revelation is not
there for idle curiosity, for people to get PhDs fiddling with a minutio of it. The book of
Revelation is there to express the fact that we are more than conquerors that we are looking forward
to this great dramatic return of the Lord Jesus Christ. It is also true to say that this return
will be decisive. First Corinthians 15, we saw this, verse 24, Paul writing concerning Jesus
return, he says, then the end will come when he hands over the kingdom to God the Father,
after he has destroyed all dominion authority and power, for he must reign until he has put all
of his enemies under his feet, and the last enemy to be destroyed is death. So when he speaks
and the dead are raised, you know, and everyone comes to see that Jesus has declared his authority
over all of this. So the return of Jesus will be dramatic, it will be decisive, and it will be
sudden. First Thessalonians 5 will come to this. Now brothers about times and dates, we do not
need to write to you for you know very well that the day of the Lord will come like a thief in
the night. When people are saying peace and safety destruction will come on them, suddenly
as labor pains on a pregnant woman, and they will not escape. Now I say to you again,
when we just take the lid off the New Testament teaching on the return of Jesus, we can go in so
many different directions. But for now, I want you to notice that here in this verse 16,
we have what is the fullest New Testament description of the Perusia, namely the return the coming
of Jesus Christ. This is the most succinct and fullest statement. For the Lord himself will come
down from heaven with a loud command, with the voice of the Archangel, and with a trumpet call of
God, and the dead in Christ will rise first. You say to yourself, if this is the fullest statement,
and there's so very little here, surely we ought to be very careful about undue dogmatism
in seeking to tell the whole story down to the minutest detail. Answer, yes, we certainly should.
And yet what is the history of the church being in the last 200 years? It has been a forsaking
of the big picture, a preoccupation with the tiniest details, and then some of the most horrendous
debates, discussions, arguments, and declensions over things about which the Bible is not dogmatic,
and therefore a great loss of that over which the Bible is absolutely certain. Now if you doubt
that, just go and pick up a Christian bookstore and look at it all. People send me books all the
time on the most minute details concerning the return of Jesus Christ. I don't want to mention them
because I'll get in trouble, but believe me, they're there, and I take them and I put them on
my shelf and every so often I read one of them, but most of the time I don't, quite honestly I don't,
because I don't understand what they're about, and I don't understand why somebody would get so
upset about a detail that is left unaddressed in the New Testament. You remember the little mouse
that went to London? See the queen? Little mouse, little mouse, where have you been? I went to
London to visit the queen? Little mouse, little mouse, what did you there? I chased another mouse
under the chair. So the mouse goes to see the queen, loses sight of the queen, on a kind of
other mice, starts chasing around all underneath the furniture, a classy picture of the church at
the end of the 20th century in relationship to the return of the king. Chasing round underneath
the furniture, arguing about bits and pieces and corners and nooks and crannies and missing
the main issue. Do you believe he's coming? Yes, he's coming. Therefore it has implications.
Now from the return we go to the resurrection, the Lord himself will come down from heaven with
a loud command and so on, end of verse 16, and the dead in Christ will rise first. At creation
God spoke and it came to be. You can read that in Psalm 339. At the tomb of Lazarus Jesus spoke
and Lazarus came out. Even the sister said, Jesus, I don't think you want to go to the tomb,
our brother has been dead now four days and his body has begun to show the signs of decay.
And Jesus stands outside the tomb and he cries, Lazarus come forth and the gathering crowd must have
looked around and said finally we know that this Jesus is crazy because he is now speaking to the dead.
And we know that the dead cannot hear and suddenly out of the tomb still bound hand in
foot walks the relatively embammed body of Lazarus himself and if people must have looked at one
another and said, as did the disciples on the sea of Galilee, what manner of man is this?
That even the dead can hear his voice. Thursday at late view cemetery, I was pondering this as
anticipated, preaching it. As I drove all around there, what a place to get lost incidentally.
You go round and round and round and round. You never come out the same way you went in. At
least I never do. I'm grateful to come out for the time being. I know there's a day when I won't
come out, but on that day I won't be worried about it. But as I wander around all those tombstones,
I sit to myself, you know, first Thessalonians 4 says that the dead in Christ will rise first.
I mean, there's going to be some funeral procession going down round there when all of a sudden
it all cuts loose. And people start coming out of those places just unbelievably dramatically.
If you've got a believer in the hearse, all of a sudden bam the guy is out of there. The girl's
out of there. Hey! You see how we can't believe this. This is far fetched. Let me tell you something,
we can't believe this. We do believe this. We must believe this. We need to preach this.
Borders, bookstore, Barnes & Noble. Did you see the thing yesterday in the plain dealer?
That Christian literature, biblical books, are now a three billion dollar enterprise. Because Christian
books are now selling in the secular marketplace. Because people are consumed with fearfulness
in a technological age and they are looking for something. So let us then write the books and let
us then get the books there that speak to the intrigue of the mind of somebody about angels and
about out of body experiences and about death and about what happens when you die and about the idea
of cosmic events. Well let's do it so that the plain things are the main things and people can
pick it up and not get lost chasing around under the furniture but maybe able to say I see it now.
This Jesus will return and there will be a resurrection. Jesus himself taught it in John chapter 5
in teaching concerning life in his name. He says, I tell you the truth verse 25 of John 5,
a time is coming and is now come when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God
and those who hear will live. People must have been saying I wonder what he means by that. In verse 28
he says, do not be amazed at this. For a time is coming when all who are in their graves will
hear his voice and come out. Those who have done good will rise to live and those who have done
evil will rise to be condemned. He speaks and listening to his voice, new life, the dead receive.
You see, think about it. Why would we have the conviction that we are going to be united with
Christ in this way? Well think about it. We were blind and dead, weren't we? In our own trespasses
and in our sins we weren't seeking God. We were lost in our own confusion. We had nothing to
look forward to and no God to whom we might turn. And then God shone the light of His word and the
truth of His Son into our hearts, illumined the dungeon of our experience, showed us our sin,
showed us a Savior and we laid hold of His mercy and His goodness. And we were brought from darkness
into light in the same way, into the darkness of the tomb in which we are laid will come the very
voice of Christ and the dead in Christ will rise first. Now you see this was the great concern of
the Thessalonians because you see they were wondering about what would happen to the people who had
died. They knew that Jesus was going to come back again and they were concerned that they would
miss the event. What a shame that our friends and our loved ones have died and they're going to
miss the great day. No no says Paul the dead in Christ will rise first before the events of verse
17. The resurrected Christ will be accompanied at His coming by His resurrected people. That's
something along the lines of verse 14 we believe that Jesus died and rose again and so we believe
that God will bring with Jesus those who have fallen asleep in Him. What does that mean? I mean a
number of things it may mean that Jesus returns and He brings with them the souls of those who have
been with Him in heaven to this point. Or it may well mean that instantaneously as the bodies are
resurrected and as Jesus comes with the souls of those who've been eternally with Him instantaneously
they are reunited and so when we hear and we look up into the skies suddenly there's a great
crowd of people coming. Not just Jesus on his own but He is bringing His gathered people. He's
picked them up from here there and from everywhere. They've all been gathering together and like a great
swarm across the sky. Do you see why I say this is a cosmic event? We haven't even begun to imagine
what this is going to mean. We haven't got into the dimension that this is going to take us
when this happens. I'm convinced on it. This is going to so far exceed anything we've ever known.
It's going to blow the mind of the unbeliever in a moment and totally freak out the Christian as well.
There is no possibility that those who have died in Christ will ever be separated from Christ.
We are indesolubely linked to Jesus. We are inseparably linked to Jesus. Think about it.
If by nature we are without God and without hope in the world, that we are the objects of His
wrath, Ephesians 2. And then the light of the glorious gospel of Christ shines into our lives
and we respond in repentance and faith, then we become as Paul says in Tukur in the
in 517, a new creation. If any man be in Christ, he is a new creation. So now I am in Christ.
For how long am I in Christ? Forever. They're up for I die in Christ.
Therefore I rise in Christ. Therefore I will be eternally with Christ. His forever says the
hymn writer only his, who the Lord and me shall part. Ah, with what a rest of bliss Christ can
fill the loving heart. Heaven and earth may fade and flee. First born light in gloom decline,
but while God and I shall be, I am His and He is mine. The return, the resurrection, the rapture.
What is this? Verse 17. We're going to be sneezed. Seized. We may sneeze as well, but we're going
to be ceased. After that we were still alive and alive. We caught up, seized, grabbed, snatched,
cattyed off by force. Where do we get the word rapture? We get it from the Latin, the Latin word
rapier, R-A-P-E-R-E. And so our English word has entered to the parlance of the church as a result
of the influence of the Latin. The word is descriptive of a sudden swoop and usually of one with
such a force that cannot be resisted. And so we anticipate this. The people who are still alive
when there is the loud command, the voice of the archangel, the trumpet call of God, and the
resurrection of the dead in Christ, the people who are still alive at that point will be caught up
together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air. The Greek word is harpazzol.
That's the Greek equivalent of the Latin repair and the English rapture. Now let me say a word
to you and there's a word both of caution and encouragement. This is the only place in the new
testament which speaks unambiguously about this event, namely the rapture. I may be a surprise to
some of you who have got the rapture appearing all the time and everywhere. But this is the only
place in the new testament that speaks unambiguously to the issue of the rapture. Now I want to quickly add
that there are other places in the new testament which can justly be said to refer to it when of
course this is established as the foundational premise. But none of those other verses in the
new testament. Absent 1 Thessalonians 417 can establish this fact on their own.
So this is it right here in one verse. Everything else may cross reference it but nothing else on
its own may establish the fact by itself. Let me say why do you make the point for this reason?
That we better be careful with such limited information about being unjuly dogmatic, about things
that we can be dogmatic about. Leon Morris says, had we an abundance of detail recorded,
we could say a great deal. But we have no more than a few simple facts and we must not read our
pet theories into them. We mustn't read our pet theories into them.
I put it to you that most of the preoccupation with the return of Jesus Christ has been
characterized by the emphasis of pet theories and the de-emphasis of absolute verities.
Because what is secondary becomes primary and therefore what is primary inevitably becomes
secondary. That what is peripheral becomes central and therefore the central event begins to
become peripheral. The precise words that Paul uses here in verse 17 don't take us very far
in our understanding of the details, do they? Don't you find yourself with a lot of questions?
After that we who are still alive and left and are left for how long doesn't say we'll be caught
up. How doesn't say in the clouds will we be suspended doesn't say we'll be able to sit on the
clouds don't be stupid so on there's a whole ton of stuff is there going to be enough room for
everybody will we all be there at the same time what about Moses is he going to be there and what
and so on and so forth you find you've got more questions that you've got answers and so the history
of the Christian church especially in America if I may be so bold as to put it to you has determined
that it will supply all the details even though the details ain't there because it's far more fun
to get all the details than it is to live with the bold assertion of the central verity.
Namely there's definitely going to be a return there's definitely going to be a resurrection of
the dead in Christ and there's definitely going to be a rapture whereby those of us who are still
alive in that moment will be gathered up together with those who have had their new resurrection
bodies now it is legitimate and it is obvious that students of the Bible are going to ponder this
and they're going to draw their own inferences from it and so they do and so we might and so we
must however it does not give to us the license to condemn others who do not draw the same inferences
and in a way that has not characterized the church ever before 20th century American Christendom
American Christendom has failed to understand that and you say who do you to come here and tell
us this I'm just Alistair and I'm just here to tell you this the debates the divisions the
discussions and the questioning of the integrity and the validity and the certainty and the
commitment of Christians in relationship to a view of the rapture have totally paralyzed great
sections of the church in the United States in Britain in other places in the world and I'm not
going to argue in favor of this but I'm just pointed out factually the issue there is not to
disagree over peculiar inferences as to what is plain but it's to unite over what is plain
and to respect the inferences which other people have but as soon as we raise inference
to the position of orthodoxy then of course anyone who does not share our inference
inference becomes unorthodox and since we cannot unite with those who are unorthodox therefore
we cannot unite with them we have to allow legitimate room for differences of opinion on
things about which the Bible is not dogmatic you say well can you apply that for example to the
deity of Jesus Christ absolutely not can you apply that to the humanity and the deity of Christ
absolutely not can you apply that to the authority of scripture absolutely not will you say well
how in the world could we arbitrarily apply it to the return of Jesus Christ we are not applying
it to the return of Jesus Christ in saying this we are stating categorically and absolutely
that the return of Jesus Christ is an absolute certainty that it will be personal that it will be
visible that it will be cosmic that it will be glorious that there will definitely be a return
there will definitely be a resurrection that there will definitely be this rapture I'll have
first Thessalonians 417 but when it gets down to the details about which the Bible then no longer
possesses the same clarity we have now moved to the realm of inference and away from the position
upon which we can be dogmatic you're gonna have to think that out you'll notice that we'll be
caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air I mentioned earlier that
it is in the air that the demons hold sway Satan is regarded as the prince of the power of the
air in Ephesians 2 2 and when we are gathered up with the Lord in the air he's going to demonstrate his
power and his reality on the home the home turf as it were of the devil and his horrors he's going
to establish graphically, cosmically his mastery over them we got a hasten to a conclusion the fourth
word is the word reunion and so we will be with the Lord forever so we will be with the Lord
forever this is the main thing everything leads up to this and after this there's nothing more to add
his return won't be local as we said it'll be universal you can read that Luke 1723 and 24
it will transcend all that we know of time and space what's the toughest thing in life
I think the toughest thing in life is saying goodbye that's what makes it hard for kids to leave for
college that's what makes it hard for lovers to say goodbye at the airport that's what makes it hard
to look into the eyes of a loved one and know that they will be taken from us in death that's what
makes it hard to watch as our friends and our neighbors are scattered throughout the country it's
parting and if we could deal with parting we could deal with everything I go good news for you
it's all dealt with we will be with the Lord forever we're all going to be there and we're all
going to be together and I for one I'm keenly looking forward to that because I'm tired of saying
cheerio to people don't you wish you could get all your friends together for one night
don't you wish you could gather them all up the ones that have gone the ones that have left the ones
that have died haul them all together in one room and just just have a big romp and worship service
don't you wish that we wouldn't have to say cheerio anymore don't you wish that it could all be
over once and for all don't you wish don't you wish that we were all going to be with the Lord
forever we are we are now I don't know how it's going to be I frankly don't know how you're going
to get around everybody I don't I haven't got the funniest idea but I do know this it's going to be
fantastic it's going to be better than the best thing you ever conceived of the most wonderful
party you ever dreamed of the best reunion you ever created imagine your most favorite family
reunion add in every friend you ever loved in all your life put them all together for one night
and multiply it to the end of the degree and you still haven't come close to what heaven's going
to be like there's going to be a great big reunion in Scotland the kid we used to sing a song
you have heard of little Moses in the bull rush you have heard of fearless David and his sling
you have heard the story told of dreaming Joseph and of Jonah and the whale I often sing
there are many many others in the Bible I should like to meet them all I do declare
by and by the Lord will surely let me meet them at a meeting in the air for there's going to be
a meeting in the air in the sweet sweet by and by I'm going to meet them meet them over there in
that home beyond this guy such singing you will hear never ever heard by mortal here to
be glorious I do declare and God's own son will be the reigning one in that meeting in the air
let the pessimist look down let the fearful look over their shoulder let the Christian lift his
eyes and look up what's it going to be his return the resurrection of the dead the rapture of the
believing the reunion of all so what because of the final word responsibility this is not to allow
us to go away and sit in a corner and pat one another on the back no he says here's what to do
encourage one another with these words someone is downhearted someone is going through difficult days
someone is someone is just overwhelmed by the events of the week that await them listen
encourage them with these words remind them of this ultimate triumph of this certainty
which gives meaning to our existence Jesus is the rock that doesn't roll he's the rock I want
to roll our blues away people all this week we'll be talking to you about the rock and roll rock
and roll rock and roll who time why should the devil of all the good music you come here you come
here we'll sing you come here we'll worship you come here we'll show you what it means
he's the rock of my salvation and finally the responsibility is expressed not only in the
encouragement that we are to give to one another but it is expressed in the fact that we are to
encourage one another purposefully as the New Testament says to love and to good deeds we are to
encourage one another to purity because when he comes he's coming for the holy he's coming for
the five wise virgins another five foolish ones we're to encourage one another to watchfulness
and keep in short accounts with sin we're to encourage one another in zealous evangelism that's
why we're doing next weekend each one bring one did you read that did you plan on that
can I encourage you to do that to seize every opportunity this week to invite somebody all the time
to this event oh I know there's some key people get them to we had 2000 people in worship last
Sunday morning 200 came for the visitation 10% response 90% never showed up that's okay because I
believe that they were all out doing it in their own community in which case it's getting really
exciting however just in case some of us weren't can I give you a wee word of encouragement
Jesus is coming back men and women have got no hope they live in a no hope generation
somebody's going to have to tell them how about you seize every opportunity every time somebody
does something for you give them one of these having to me yesterday the driving range hitting golf balls
lady perspiring like fury but her head blowing up like a balloon getting hotter and hotter with every
left-handed surge at the ball I was trying out a look at her I was frying she's going to explode
after a little while she comes across to me and she says here I think you should have these balls
I said well I know I need the practice I said but what's the problem she says oh I haven't
done this for five years and you know I'm about to die and I said well let me give you some money
for them which was an uncharacteristic act of generosity in my part which all the time hoping she
would do as she did and say no thank you and I said oh well okay then I can take them so she pour
the balls out for me and she went away and hit the lingering tune as she went out I said hey hang on
let me give you something she said what I said I want to give you an invitation to church
that I don't go to church I said you're just the girl I'm looking for stay there
they've got these things the sheets and everything got them out and I said when's the last time you
went to church I don't go to church never I said well hey you come to this and you bring your friends
now she may not come I hope she comes but she'll remember at least somewhere along the journey
of her day that somebody cared enough to invite her can I encourage you and you know what I'm really
afraid that the statistics of last Sunday are representative of where our congregation is
in relationship the next Sunday I'm not sure that some of you have caught the vision of this
you know what we're not interested in you coming here next Sunday by yourself
we're not providing an afternoon in the parking lot so we all get together and scratch each
others bags we're going to do some stuff that'll get some of you a little upset the first song
we're going to do is I want to hold your hand and then you're not going to find that in scripture
praise we're going to follow it up with camp by me love we're going to finish with help
you call that a Christian event yeah do you know how you have a Christian event you have
Christians at the event reaching out to non-Christians quoting the poets of their day
season the preoccupations of their minds and answering the questions from the truth of scripture
that's what we're going to do but you're not going to like it if you don't show up with somebody
who says you know what I do need help you know what I got to get you into my life you know what
I know you can't buy love and I don't know where you can find it
can I encourage you
he's going to return it's going to be a resurrection it's going to be a rapture there's
going to be a reunion therefore we've got a responsibility all the saints who've rested from
their labors they've done their part now it's up to us will you commit yourself not just to this
task but to the challenge you've been listening to a message by Alistair Begg from truth for life
and you're welcome to pass this sermon along to others but please don't charge for it or alter it
without written permission from truth for life this content has been provided to you free of charge
by the generous supporters of truth for life for additional information about how you can
support truth for life please visit us online at truthforlife.org there you'll find free message
downloads from Alistair Begg as well as links to our podcast mobile apps and other resources
to help you grow in your Christian faith again the website is truthforlife.org you can also follow us
on Facebook and Twitter to stay in touch with truth for life and Alistair Begg truth for life
where the learning is for living
