The following message by Alistair Begg is made available by Truth For Life.
For more information, visit us online at truthforlife.org.
Our view of the end of the world is going to be inevitably directly related to our view of the beginning of the world.
It is impossible to have a view of how it will conclude that it is not directly related to our view of how it's begun.
And so to address the issue of the end of the age and the return of Jesus Christ is to recognize that the convictions with which the Christian affirms these truths.
Are directly related to our understanding of the whole of history and indeed the origin of history itself.
And in this respect, the Christian stands apart from so much that it's contemporary thinking in relationship to why we're here, where we're going and whether it matters at all.
The ancient world tended to view the events of human life from the perspective of kind of astral phenomenon or cosmic significance.
In other words, they looked up into the heavens and they sought to see in the movement of the planets and the stars the explanation for what was actually happening to them at a particular moment in time.
And interestingly, now at the end of the 20th century, there are many of our contemporaries who are doing the very same thing, who are seeking to explain contemporary existence in light of cosmic and astral factors.
For example, the one woman play featuring Lily Tomlin's The Search for Signs of Intelligent Life in the Universe has Lily Tomlin as the Bag Lady Trudy in some of the opening scenes expressing her concern and worries about life.
And at one point she says, I worry about my place in the cosmic scheme of things.
And then she says, I worry that there is no cosmic scheme of things.
And many people ended last evening here in Cleveland and have awakened to a new day with a sort of sense of futility that settles over their minds which they cannot fully explain.
And it is directly related to their view of history, the way in which they view times origins and the way in which they view its conclusions.
For some, they see history simply in terms of repetitive cycles, significant only within a specific culture or within a specific civilization.
If there's any significance to it at all, and again the sneaking suspicion is in the minds of many, that there is no significance to it at all.
That we're born by chance, we eke out an existence in a sort of purposeless fashion, and then we die and go to who knows where and probably to know where at all.
The Greeks determined that probably the best way to view history was largely to ignore it all together.
They saw nothing of perpetual and abiding significance in really very much at all, and indeed they were the masters of mythology, having let go of history.
You say, well, that's a long way removed from today. No, not really.
They were full of not only the stoic people who distanced themselves from any sense of feeling, but they were also populated largely by people with an epicurean approach to life,
which seems like a large phrase and somewhat removed until we reduce it to the words of Chris Christopherson.
Yesterday is dead and gone, and tomorrow is out of sight, help me make it through the night.
I don't care about yesterday, I don't care about tomorrow, I only care about right now.
Because yesterday is no significance, tomorrow is no significance.
The only thing that is significance is right in this very moment.
Now it is left then up to the Hebrew prophets in the Old Testament and the apostles in the New Testament to address the issue of history from a radically different perspective.
The Jewish mind understood perfectly that the Creator God is in charge of history, that He decisively works in all the events of human history,
that He is responsible for its origin, and He will in turn be responsible for its conclusion.
Car Henry, one of the best and brightest theologians of the twentieth century, puts it in this way in one of his books.
The Bible, throughout, insists that God the Creator holds mankind eternally accountable for every thought, word, and deed.
And that each successive generation moves towards a final future in which the God, not only of creation, but also of redemption and judgment,
will consummate human history in the light of His divine offer of salvation, which being summarized goes like this.
Everything I ever said, every place I ever went, every deed I ever did, is going to be eternally reckoned with in relationship to the God who made me.
Now it is not too difficult to understand why it then is that contemporary men and women, with all of our bad deeds, poor words, and dirty thoughts, would rather not have a view of history that was moving towards that kind of encounter.
But instead would choose to believe that history is cyclical and go on a peculiar search for our own particular karma.
Rather than to believe what the Bible says that it is linear and that we're moving towards a destination.
Now you see it is this issue which is forcibly brought to us in the return of Jesus Christ, because the Christian recognizes that the God who acted in history and still acts in history is going to draw matters to a close as he intended.
And that's why here in chapter 5 of First Thessalonians, Paul once again addresses the issue of the return of Jesus Christ.
This is very, very important for those of you who are students of history, either in high school or in college, whatever it might be.
The Secretary for Education in this past week I saw on television arguing the merits and de-merits of the contemporary approach to the teaching of history in public schools.
And an issue was the matter that some are complaining that we are dragging up the bad parts of American history, focusing on them and not highlighting the glory days of the last 200 years or so.
And while that may be a genuine concern, I haven't really considered it very much.
The greater concern is this, that young people are being taught history within a framework of total godlessness.
So that their explanation of and interpretation of events has to do with the immediacy of the moment.
Not the legitimacy of a right decision and the illegitimacy of a wrong decision, because absent a creator god who has established a moral law, there is no right or wrong decision.
There is only pragmatism.
And so I dialogue with my children as they come home from school and it becomes increasingly apparent to me that without a view of god who began it, god who sustains it, and god who concludes it, history is pretty well a futile exercise.
It's certainly at the graduate level of study, because it started no place, it is no place, and it's going no place.
So you understand why people say, history teaches us, that history teaches us nothing.
But when we read our Bibles, we discover the reverse to be the case.
I say to you again, that our view of the return of Jesus Christ, how the end will be, is directly related to our view at the beginning.
And the return of Jesus Christ is at the very forefront of emphasis in the New Testament.
One in 25 verses in the New Testament deals with the issue of the return of Jesus Christ.
Of the 260 chapters, 318 mentions are found to the return of Jesus Christ.
I fell about the name of Olsen, puts it very succinctly when he writes,
ever since the first days of the Christian church, even Jellikos have been quotes looking for that blessed hope
and the glorious appearing of the great god and our Savior Jesus Christ.
They may, he said, have disagreed as to its timing and to the events on the eschatological calendar.
However, all are agreed that the final solution to the problems of this world
is in the hands of the king of kings who someday make the kingdoms of this world his very own.
That's the issue. All are agreed that the final solution to the problems of this world
is in the hands of the king of kings, not in the hands of the United Nations,
not in the hands of Washington DC, not in the hands of P. King, but in the hands of the king of kings.
The Lord, God, omnipotent reigns, it doesn't always seem so, but says Scripture, it is so.
Now says Paul, let me pick up this issue of the way things are going to wrap up and let me address you on three lines.
And I have three points. Number one, the curiosity to be avoided. Number two, the identity to be affirmed.
And number three, the strategy to be adopted. I'll come back to them in turn. You need to have
worried about them. You notice the way he ends, chapter four. He has given instruction concerning
the dead in Christ. How those who are still alive will not precede them at the return of Jesus Christ.
And he ends up chapter 14 by saying, in light of all that I've just said to you,
encourage one another with these words. And you can just imagine that in the course of dialogue,
there would be those who would respond to Paul and say, well, yeah, we understand that,
and that's all very well and good. But Paul, come on now, let's get down to the heart of the matter.
Let's get to the details of the matter. Let's get our diaries out. Let's get our calendars out
and let's talk times and let's talk dates. Because if there is anything of significance in terms
of the return of Jesus Christ, then surely it is related to times and dates. We need Paul to have
an accurate chronology. And what Paul is about to say and what I'm about to show you is that
Paul's answer is, you don't need an accurate chronology. You need a biblical theology.
For a preoccupation with chronology, minus theology will give you nothing else than a mythology.
And it is mythology, which has filled the minds of people over the last 200 years and more,
in relationship to the issues of the end of the age and the coming of the Lord Jesus.
And I'll show you something of that in a moment or two. Paul declares in this section, if I can summarize
it, that the Thessalonians needed to hear and we need and every age needs to be reiterated for us,
that the real issue is not knowing the date. The real issue is staying alert. The real issue
is staying alert. Now, let's address this matter of curiosity beginning in verse one. Now,
brothers, about times and dates we do not need to write to you. You really don't need written
instruction on this matter says, Paul, why not? Well, because he had already addressed it with him.
He had already spoken to them. He had already preached and founded the church in Thessalonica
and in the course of his instruction, there is no possibility that he would have left out
the vitally important information concerning the return of Jesus Christ. And in doing so,
he would have made clear what he makes much of once again. Verse two, for you know very well,
that the day of the Lord will come like a thief in the night. Nobody knew the date. Nobody
could know the date. Therefore, it was idle for them to spend their time focusing on the date.
And yet, if you think of the first five books that come to your mind in relationship to the
return of Jesus Christ, I can guarantee you that four out of the five all have something to do
with the time or the date. And indeed, you will find in the next four years to the year 2000,
there will just be a great flood of books that will tickle your ears and boggle your mind in
relationship to all kinds of mathematical fancies in relationship to times and seasons. And I say
to you, look, brothers and sisters, about times and dates we do not need to write to you.
Now, let me reinforce this by turning you to a number of portions in the New Testament.
Matthew 24, first of all, and verse 44.
You must also be ready. This is Jesus speaking, because the Son of Man will come at an hour
when you do not expect him. Mary McShane, who died at 29 as the Presbyterian minister
of, I think, St. Peter's in Dundee, it goes from my mind for a moment.
Used to in his Bible study on a Wednesday night, take the group that was in front of them,
and go around them and ask them the question, do you think Jesus Christ will come today?
And the answers would be various, but most of the time the answer was, no, I don't think he will come
today. And then he would quote, Matthew 24, 44, you also must be ready, because the Son of Man will
come at an hour when you do not expect him. So the fact that you expect him doesn't make it any
sooner, and the fact that you don't expect him doesn't push it any further back.
Mark, and chapter 13, one gospel up, Matthew, Mark, and chapter 13, and verse 32.
No one knows about that day or hour, not even the angels in heaven, nor the Son, but only the Father.
Hey, tell us about times and dates. I'm going to tell you about times and dates. Forget times and dates.
But you're wasting your time on that and other stuff. The reason being is not the issue.
If it were the issue, you would have a different verse 2, different verse 3, and a different verse 4.
Now about the times and dates, Paul would have said, let me give it to you real clear. Let me give it
to you, ABC, and one, two, three. And steady says, now about times and dates, there is a curiosity
to be avoided. Because Jesus said, no one knows, not the angels, not me, only my Father.
Therefore to spend our time gazing in crystal balls in relationship to this is a dumb idea.
Acts chapter 1, the disciples at the time of the ascension, Acts chapter 1, and verse 6. So when
they met together, the esteem, Lord, are you at this time going to restore the kingdom to Israel?
Lord, are we going to wrap it up now? After all, you were dead, buried, raised, your back.
Is it all going to come together? Look at the reply. It is not for you to know the times
or dates the Father has set by his own authority. But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit
comes on you, and you will be my witnesses. You notice something? Their preoccupation is,
now, are you going to set up the kingdom? Is it all going to end now? Is it all going to be fine
and wonderful and put together? Jesus said, no, it's not for you to know the times or the dates,
but it is for you to evangelize the world. Is it that? You don't go sit on a hill and get your
calculators out and start working this stuff out. Get off the hill, get into the streets,
the valleys, the shops, the thoroughfares, the restaurants, the laboratories, and tell everyone
the good news that Jesus Christ has come. That's the issue. Don't allow your curiosity to sideline you.
Now, back in 1 Thessalonians 5, having said this in verse 1, he gives an illustration in verse 2,
which is not an unfamiliar illustration, for you know very well that the day of the Lord will come
like a thief in the night. Like a thief in the night. Jesus uses the exact same illustration
in Matthew 24. Peter picks it up and uses it in 2 Peter 3. The thief in the night comes secretly.
And there are actually three words I want to give to you that will help you to avoid the curiosity
factor. And the first word is that word secret, secret. The thing about a burglar, and you'll
know this if your home is being burgled. And ours has, not here, but somewhere else.
Burglers don't tell you when they're coming, by and large. They do not make advance
announcement of their arrival. You don't go to your mailbox and pick up a postcard that says,
dear Sir and Madam, just to let you know, the Tuesday after next, we will be burgling your house
sometime around 2 a.m. thought you'd like to know. No, that would be a dumb burglar did that.
If you ask me afterwards, I'll tell you about a very skillful burglar who did send a note to
somebody, but it's a bad, it's an aside, an unnecessary aside, but it's an interesting and funny
story. But the burglar, as a burglar, does not give advance notice. And that's why Jesus says,
Matthew 2436, of that day and hour north, no man. And in the same way as a burglar comes secretly,
so I will come. And Paul says, you know this very well. Now, despite the fact that you know
very well, he says, you're still all tied up in times and days and seasons. Every generation
has decided to become preoccupied with the issues that Jesus said not to get preoccupied about.
For example, in the 18th century, or actually the late 17th century in Scotland,
it was a gentleman by the name of John Napier, a mathematician. Some of you will know his name. He's
the guy who invented logarithms. And he used his logarithmic formula to project the date of the
turn of Jesus Christ, which he said mathematically at 1700. Now, between 1688 and 1700, his book went through
23 editions, tremendous interest in it. Since 1700, it has not been selling particularly well.
I was brought up in the 60s with the late great planet Earth, explained the whole of the 1960s to me,
explained the emergence of the common market, explained how locust were helicopters and goodness
knows what else. It was the biggest selling book in airport bookstores in America. And most of it
is totally fatuous as of today. What was the problem? The problem was not to op the ante on the
truth of the return of Jesus. That is fabulous. The problem was to try and disprove the Bible.
When Paul said you don't need this stuff about times and dates, he was saying it because of what
Jesus had said. The classic from history, again from the 18th century, is a Roman Catholic
theologian who set the date of the return of Jesus Christ at 1784. And the book which contained
the information was not published until 1785. It's a bit of a let down. Everybody's still around
not reading it. It's secret. Secondly, it's sudden. It's sudden. That's verse three. While people
are saying peace and safety, destruction will come on them suddenly. Suddenly, the suddenness of
it all is made much of in the gospel records too. Again, back in Matthew 24 to which we would
turn frequently. Matthew 24 and verse 26. And we quoted this last week. So if anyone tells you
there he is out in the desert, don't go out or here he is in the inner rooms, don't believe it.
Now again, that's real straightforward. I like that. It's so helpful. It closes down a lot of
stuff, a lot of Tommy Rod that I just flat out don't want to pay attention to because the book is
telling me he's out here. He's over there. I said, no, I don't believe that. Why not? Because of
verse 27. For as the lightning that comes from the east is visible even in the west, so will be the
coming of the Son of Man. In other words, it is going to come with dramatic suddenness. Now you'll
notice the juxtaposition here between these two pictures. The thief comes suddenly and unexpectedly.
That's the strategy of the burglar. But for a lady, labor pains are not unexpected. They're
expected. And that is the great fun, at least for the man of the first child, you know, is this,
are they happening yet? What are those things? I can remember sin around in the middle of the
night and then the next day going in a shoe shop in Glasgow and so I said, oh, I think it's
I said, what? It's what? I said, no, no, I don't think it is. And then a little later, yeah, I
think it is. No, I don't think it is for crying out loud. Get them. What is this thing? Brenston,
Pickles, Brenston, Hicks or whatever you call these things? What are they? I don't know. But I know
now, after three of them, they are unavoidable. You get yourself in that condition. They're coming.
Now, that's his point. In relationship to the burglar, his return is sudden and unexpected.
In relationship to the pregnant woman, the birth pangs are sudden and unavoidable. So we know two
things then. We know that it is secret. We know that it is sudden and unexpected. But also,
at the same time, unavoidable. And thirdly, we know that it will bring a broad separation.
We say, where did you get that? In First Thessalonians 5, it's not in First Thessalonians 5,
but it is back in Matthew 24. We always want to interpret scripture with scripture. Matthew 24
in verse 37. No one knows about that dare are not even angels and so on, as it was in the beginning.
In the days of Noah, so it will be the coming of the Son of man. Verse 40, two men will be in the field.
One will be taken. The other will be left. Two women will be grinding with a hand mill. One will
be taken and the other left. Now you say to me, that's another totality of everything. We need to
know about the return of Jesus Christ. And to that, I say a hearty amen. But I want to tell you this,
if you know this much, you know enough to do what the Bible calls you to do.
If you know that curiosity is to be avoided because the day's secret, the day's sudden
and the day will bring separation. Now you have a pretty good head start on what God wants you to do.
And indeed, if what you want to do is sit around and delve into the intricacies and curiosities,
you're not going to have enough time to do what the Bible calls you to do because you'll be so busy
doing what it calls you not to do. But isn't that the story of our lives?
The curiosity that is to be avoided and then he goes on to the identity that is to be affirmed.
He introduces the contrast with two words at the beginning of verse four, but you, brothers.
Again, this term of endearment, generically used, he might equally have said, but you, brothers and
sisters. So you're not like this. You're not like the rest of men. You don't live in the darkness,
he says. You're not in the darkness so that the day should surprise you like a thief.
When the Lord himself comes down from heaven with a loud command with a voice of the archangel
with a trumpet call of God, you're not going to be surprised. Not in the way that the unbeliever
is going to be surprised. Because when all of that cuts loose, unbelievers are going to be saying,
what in the world is this? And the believer is going to say, is Jesus? That's for Cessalonians
for this, what you're going to say. That's what it was. Voice, trumpet, blast, loud command. It's
Jesus. Now why do we know that? Because of the radical transformation that has taken place in our
lives. You are not in the darkness. Your identity has been changed. The day won't surprise you
like a thief because after all he says, picking up on this metaphor of light and darkness,
you're all sons of the light and sons of the day. We don't belong to the night or to the darkness.
We were one's darkness, but now we're light in the Lord. That's Ephesians 5. First Peter chapter 2
verse 9, we were once not a people. Now we are the people of God. We once lived in darkness,
but now we've been brought out of darkness and into his marvelous light.
We are different. First Thessalonians 4 verse 13, we are not like the rest of men because they have
no hope. We are different because first Thessalonians 1 verse 9, we have turned to God from
idols to serve the living and true God and to wait for his son from heaven, whom he raised from
the dead. So we are not like the rest of men on a Monday morning who go back to their days and say,
I don't know where the world's going. I don't know what's going on in this newspaper. I can't
stand watching the news. I haven't got a concept of how it will end. This is driving me absolutely
insane. Answer, let me explain to you how it's going to end. Well, how would you know how it's
going to end? Because I know how it began. Well, how did it begin? Well, God let light shine out
of darkness. He said, let there be light and there was light. Oh, you don't tell me you believe
that. Absolutely. And He made man and He made woman and He walked with them in the garden and the
cool of the day. Well, you don't believe that. Do you? Yes, I do. Absolutely. And man and women
turned their back on the living God and suddenly the world that we know today is not the world, the
way man made it, but is the world the way man has, not the world the way God made it, but the world
the way man has spoiled it. Sin has entered into the world. We live in a fallen world. We can't put
ourselves in a right situation with God. That's why God came in the person of Jesus Christ and
died upon the cross, not to show us how much He loved us, but to pay the penalty for our sin,
which did show us how much He loved us. And those who believe into Christ become new creations,
become identified with light and love and peace and hope and joy and reality. You say, well,
you know what? I can't process that much that fast, but maybe we could talk about it again.
Answer, I'd love to talk about it again. I'd love to talk about it every coffee break from now
until the day when the truth dawns on your mind and you say, you know what? I understand it now.
And listen, folks, until we have a new identity in the Lord Jesus Christ, which is the whole point
of the gospel that Jesus comes and lives in us. I've given you the illustration before. Show me a
Shakespeare play and tell me to write it. Write one just like that. I can't do it.
Show me a painting by Van Gogh and ask me to paint a painting like that and I can't do it.
Show me a life like the life of Jesus and ask me to live a life like that and I can't do it.
But if the genius of Van Gogh could come and live in me, I could paint that kind of picture. If
the genius of Shakespeare could come and live in me, then I could write that kind of play and play.
And if the reality of Jesus can come and live in me, then I can live that kind of life.
That's the gospel you see. And everything else is a call to externalism.
Well, come on now. Have a good week. Try and be a kind person this week. Do your best this week.
Shape up. Stop swearing in your car. Stop getting aggravated at other drivers.
Try and be nicer to your wife. Give yourself a shake. Pull your socks up.
Spend more time with your kids. Da, da, da, da. The guy's going, you know what?
I don't even know if I want to and even if I wanted to. I don't even know if I can.
That's no Christianity. That's moralism. That's externalism.
Christianity is you're in deep trouble. Jesus died to get you out of the deep trouble,
but unless you admit you're in deep trouble, you ain't never getting out of it.
So first you got to admit it, but I want good news. Sorry, there ain't no good news without bad
news first. Well, I don't want to listen to it. Fine. See you around. Next, there's bad news,
then there's good news. You ready for the bad news? Yes. Okay, here it is.
Oh, I understand. And what's happening in Pope is all across this city this morning
on rally day and come to church day and this next day, it are people are being called to a lifestyle
without any life. And it is the worst possible thing I can imagine to do Christian stuff without
knowing why or how to be involved in externalism, moralism and just doing stuff. I have no interest
in doing stuff. All the stuff I want to do by nature is bad stuff. Believe me.
And unless someone came and changed the mechanism inside of me, I'd be doing all that bad stuff
and as it is, I still do some of it. So the identity is key to the activity.
To be called to activity without an identity is to live in externalism which is bogus and worthless
and facile and empty and trivial and irrelevant and the world looks on and says I want none of it
and frankly I could agree more. But when life comes into the life, into the tree,
then leaves appear on the branches, not by an act of Congress, but as a result of the intake
of that resource. And when Jesus comes to live within a life, then there's lifestyle.
And so says Paul, there's the deal. Your sons of the light, you're not in the darkness.
Proverbs Solomon says the way of the wicked is deep darkness. Paul says to the Ephesians, Ephesians
five, once you were darkness now you're light in the Lord. To be a son of something in the
Semitic idiom was to be characterized by that thing. So when he says your sons of the light or
your daughters of the light, he says one of the things that marked your heart as light.
You know, it's really quite simple. If Christians would just go out and shine a wee bit,
we'd make a devastating impact. I mean some of our faces could not exactly be called shining faces.
Some of us have got miserable faces. You know, don't you go back in your bank as a teller
and start sticking up dirty big signs that say repent the end of the world draweth night
and be going in the coffee room, criticize in the manager and everybody else in the place.
Tear down your sign and shine. And once you shine, then you can have a sign. In fact, once you shine,
you will need a sign. Oh, they're just made that up now. If you shine, if you shine, no need of
sign. That's it. And that's what he's saying to them. Listen guys, listen, you are all sons of the
light and sons of the day. We don't belong to the night or to the darkness. We're not like that.
We've been made new. The prologue of John's gospel says the light shines in the darkness and the
darkness is not understood. Of course it hasn't understood it and understand Jesus.
And you can argue somebody into it either. John chapter three, the progression is very clear.
This is the verdict. Light has come into the world, but men love darkness instead of light
because their deeds were evil. Everyone who does evil hates the light and will not come into the light
for fear that his deeds will be exposed, but whoever lives by the truth comes into the light so that
it may be seen plainly that what he has done has been done through God. I mean, once again, you don't
have to be a genius to understand this. I was driving down 71 during the week,
way down 71 and in the distance I saw this huge big pole and it had a neon sign wrapped around
one word and the word said adult. I said, what a remarkable thing to put on the end of a freeway.
A big pole to be seen for miles around that just says adult.
A attractive sign at the base of which pole you will find total darkness.
In the mercy of God I haven't been in those rooms, but I've noticed from the outside they don't
have windows. They're all boarded up. They're all blacked out. They are all darkness.
And as Christians we live in darkness. As unbelievers, we live in darkness. We are born into darkness.
We're on the road that's full of darkness and our eyes are dark. Therefore our whole body is
dark. Unless we hear the words of Jesus saying, I am the light of the world, he who follows me will
not walk in darkness but will have the light of life. And suddenly he turns the light on and we go.
Where do we go? We go to do his bidding. What is his bidding? That's the last point.
There is a strategy to be adopted. Verse six introduces us to it. Two words, so then, so then,
so what? That's what we always need to be asking. Is there a point to this? There is a curiosity
to be avoided. It's secret, sudden, and separation. There is an identity to be affirmed. We are no
longer what we once were. We have been radically changed. So what? Here it is. So then, don't be like
the others. That's got to tell you something. In other words, don't be a walking contradiction,
partly truth and partly fiction. Don't be saying one thing and live in another thing.
You are light in the Lord. Therefore, live as light in the Lord. These people are drunk through
asleep. They live in the darkness. We belong to the day. Therefore, our strategy is clear. Say no
to moral carelessness and say yes to alertness. In the word, there is watchful. So then, let us not
be like the others who are asleep, but let us be alert or watchful. Gregorio is the great word
from which we get our English boy's name, Gregory, and it means vigilance or watchfulness or alertness.
Let's all be Gregory's, he says. The proper attitude of the Christian is not sleepiness,
dreamy cluelessness, moral indifference, but it is alertness. The next verb is nephal,
which means to be sober in the authorized version. Self-controlled. It has to do again with
discipline and moral alertness. That's the whole contrast between verse seven and verse eight.
Those who sleep sleep at night, those who get drunk at drunk at night, but we belong to the day.
I mean, unless you're working the night shift, why would you ever want to be? I don't want to
call out in the morning. She'd be in your bed, shouldn't you?
Early to bed, early to rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy, and wise.
I tell my kids, there are no reason to be driving around in the middle of the night,
unless you're delivering the plane dealer. And since I know you're not,
let's go to bed. That's what you do at night. Unless you're of the darkness,
we'll come back to this next week, but there are two immediate telling points of impact
in relationship to the return of Jesus Christ and there are these. The strategy which is to be
adopted is a strategy number one for moral purity. One, John, three, three. Everyone who has this
hope within him purifies himself even as he is pure. The real question of whether I favor and
long for the return of Jesus Christ is not going to be answered by looking at the books on my shelf.
It's not going to be answered by articulating my view of eschatology. It's going to be answered by
you coming in my house, walking in my shoes as it were, driving in my car, listening to my music,
watching my videos, and reading my books, and me the same for you. Moral purity is one of the key
indicators that a man or woman is saying no to curiosity, saying yes to their identity,
and is impacting the strategy. We'll come back to this in the second one.
Is the issue of zealous evangelism. Zealous evangelism. When I understand that the day is
certain, it's secret, and it brings separation, what excuse does that give me for sitting around
having a happy little class for myself? John chapter 9 and verse 4, as long as it is the day says
Jesus, we must do the work of him who sent me. Night is coming when no one can work.
While I am in the world, I am the light of the world. And when I am not in the world,
when I am not incarnated, when I am not walking the Jerusalem streets, you're the light of the world.
Hey Paul, tell us all that good stuff about the times and the dates. We want to get it down.
Get a crystal ball, Paul. Let's get into the nitty gritty of the return of Jesus Christ.
Somebody gave me two books since last Sunday. I'm not reading them.
Okay, I told the guy that already, so there's no surprise to him. I flat out not reading them.
I don't have the time to read them. And if I read them, it would drive me nuts.
And since you know that I'm already kind of nuts, you don't want to run that risk. So quick,
give me these books, would you? I'm having a bad enough time reading this book and understanding this.
Take your curiosity and sit on it.
Take your identity and live it and take this strategy and implement it.
And you'll be amazed what's going to happen. Let's pray.
Father, forgive us for always wanting to take the parts that are peripheral and make them central
and taking the central parts and inevitably making them peripheral.
We are so much like these early disciples. Lord, is this the time you're going to do this now?
What will happen next? And we need to hear you saying to us again today, as you said to them,
on that day before, are you were caught up into heaven?
Listen, it's not for you to know the times and the dates, but it is for you to go into all the world
and fulfill my commission, understand my mission, and live in such a way that unbelieving people
might become committed followers of Jesus Christ. Lord help us, help me, we need you
to clarify our thinking, to purify our hearts, and to set us on the pathway of your appointing.
And we pray in the name of your Son, the Lord Jesus. Amen.
You've been listening to a message by Aleister Begg from Truth for Life, and you're welcome to pass
this sermon along to others, but please don't charge for it or alter it without written permission from
Truth for Life. This content has been provided to you free of charge by the generous supporters of truth
for life. For additional information about how you can support Truth for Life, please visit us
online at truthforlife.org. There you'll find free message downloads from Aleister Begg,
as well as links to our podcast, mobile apps, and other resources to help you grow in your Christian
faith. Again, the website is truthforlife.org. You can also follow us on Facebook and Twitter to
stay in touch with Truth for Life and Aleister Begg. Truth for Life, where the learning is for living.
